

Paving the Way towards 800 Gbps Quantum-Secured
Optical Channel Deployment in Mission-Critical Environments

Farzam Toudeh-Fallah1, Marco Pistoia1, Yasushi Kawakura2, Navid Moazzami3, David H. Kramer1,
Robert I. Woodward4, Greg Sysak3, Benny John1, Omar Amer1, Antigoni O. Polychroniadou1,
Jeffrey Lyon1, Suresh Shetty1, Tulasi D. Movva1, Sudhir Upadhyay1, Monik R. Behera1,
Joseph A. Dolphin4, Paul A. Haigh4, James F. Dynes4, Andrew J. Shields4

1JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. 2Toshiba America, Inc 3Ciena, Inc 4Toshiba Europe Ltd

Abstract—This article describes experimental research studies JPMorgan Chase’s Optical Transport Lab in Columbus, Ohio
conducted  towards  understanding  the  implementation  aspects aimed  at  understanding  the  implementation  and  deploymentof  high-capacity  quantum-secured  optical  channels  in  mission- aspects  of  an  800  Gbps  QKD-secured  optical  channel  incritical metro-scale operational environments based on Quantum
Key Distribution (QKD) technology. The test bed for this research mission-critical metro-scale operational environments. The test
study  was  carefully  designed  to  mimic  such  environments. bed  for  this  research  study  was  carefully  designed  to  mimic
To  the  best  of  our  knowledge,  this  is  the  first  time  that  an such environments.
800  Gbps  quantum-secured  optical  channel—along  with  several To  the  best  of  our  knowledge,  this  research  study  is  theother Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexed (DWDM) channels first  one  to  demonstrate  an  800  Gbps  QKD-secured  opticalon the C-band and multiplexed with the QKD channel on the O-
band—was established at distances up to 100 km, with secure-key channel along with several other Dense Wavelength Division
rates relevant for practical industry use cases. In addition, during Multiplexed  (DWDM)  channels  on  the  C-band,  multiplexed
the  course  of  these  trials,  transporting  a  blockchain  application with the QKD quantum channel on the O-band, at distances up
over this established channel was utilized as a demonstration of to 100 km. At a 70 km distance over a Corning SMF-28 opticalsecuring a financial transaction in transit over a quantum-secured fiber,  this  system  achieved  a  secure-key  rate  (SKR)  of  66.16optical  channel.
In  a  real-world  operational  environment,  deployment  of  such kbps,  capable  of  supporting  258  QKD-secured  DWDM  data
high-capacity quantum-secured optical channels multiplexed with channels using Advanced Encryption Standard Galois/Counter
the  quantum  channel  will  inevitably  introduce  challenges  due Mode encryption with a key size of 256 bits (AES-256-GCM)
to  their  strict  requirements,  such  as  high  launch  powers  and and a key refresh rate of 1/sec. In addition, during the coursepolarization  fluctuations.  Therefore,  in  the  course  of  this  re- of these trials, transporting a blockchain application over thissearch,   experimental   studies   were   conducted   on   the   impact
on  the  system  performance—and  specifically  on  the  quantum established channel was utilized as a demonstration of securing
channel—of  several  degradation  factors  present  in  real-world a financial transaction in transit over a quantum-secured optical
operational  environments,  including  inter-channel  interference channel.
(due  to  Raman  scattering  and  nonlinear  effects),  attenuation, In  real-world  operational  environments,  requiring  a  thirdpolarization  fluctuations  and  distance  dependency.  The  findings site  just  for  the  purpose  of  QKD  to  work  is  impractical,of  this  research  pave  the  way  towards  the  deployment  of  QKD-
secured  optical  channels  in  high-capacity,  metro-scale,  mission- since  the  deployment  of  any  new  technology  must  be  done
critical   operational   environments,   such   as   Inter-Data   Center within  the  facilities  and  sites  already  in  place—for  example
Interconnects. between  two  metro-area  data  centers.  The  experimental  re-
search described in this article was conducted purely based onI.  INTRODUCTION real-world operational equipment, with no employment of any
Quantum    Key    Distribution    (QKD)    is    a    well-known kind of simulation or emulation, and without the need for the
symmetric-key   distribution   method   that   does   not   rely   on deployment  of  additional  sites  dedicated  to  QKD.  Therefore,
computational  assumptions.  Rather,  it  leverages  principles  of the solution presented here is directly applicable to metro-scale
quantum mechanics to provide communication channels with operational environments.
unconditional  security,  mathematically  proven  by  multiple Fiber-optic  links  deployed  in  the  field  are  very  expensive
studies  [1]–[3].  This  article  mainly  concerns  itself  with  the commodities;  dedicating  a  fiber  just  to  the  quantum  channel
implementation,  deployment  and  integration  of  QKD  tech- would be considered unacceptable in a real-world operational
nologies into real-world network infrastructures. For a detailed environment. Consequently, when considering a QKD solution
discussion  of  the  theory  behind  QKD,  as  well  as  its  security suitable  for  production,  the  optical  and  quantum  channels
and  challenges,  and  a  survey  of  state-of-the-art  real-world must  be  multiplexed  on  the  same  fiber.  Even  though  this
tests, see [4]–[6]. requirement is of utmost importance, the deployment of high-
capacity QKD-Secured optical channels multiplexed with theA.  Novel Contributions of This Work quantum channel introduces challenges—such as polarization
This paper describes in detail a joint experimental research fluctuations  as  well  as  nonlinear  effects  associated  with  high
study  conducted  by  JPMorgan  Chase,  Toshiba  and  Ciena  at launch  powers—which  have  been  shown  to  have  negative


impact on the performance of the quantum channel. The  800  Gbps  signal  generated  by  the  Waveserver  system
Thus,  in  the  course  of  this  experimental  research  project, on  the  C-band  on  port  1/1  (the  CUT)  was  inserted  into
studies were conducted towards understanding and quantifying the  QKD  system.  The  CUT  was  then  multiplexed  with  the
the  impact  of  several  degradation  factors  present  in  real- quantum channel on the O-band by the QKD system and both
world  operational  environments.  Specifically,  we  investigated were  transmitted  over  an  optical  fiber.  On  the  receiver  side,
the  degradation  of  the  quantum  channel  associated  with  a the  reverse  operation  took  place.  Also,  as  shown  in  Figure
high-capacity QKD-secured optical channel. Factors inducing 2,  communications  between  the  Waveserver  systems  and  the
this  type  of  degradation  include  inter-channel  interference QKD  systems  were  conducted  via  an  API  link  between  the
(due, for example, to Raman scattering and nonlinear effects), Waveserver  and  the  QKD  Control  Server  device.  This  com-
attenuation, polarization fluctuations and distance dependency. munication  was  used  by  the  Waveserver  systems  to  retrieve
The  findings  of  this  research  pave  the  way  towards  the the  QKD-generated  keys  from  a  key  management  system  on
deployment of future QKD-secured optical channels in high- the  QKD  Control  Server.  The  API  link  characteristics  were
capacity,   metro-scale,   mission-critical   operational   environ- based  on  the  specifications  of  the  European  Telecommunica-
ments, such as Inter-Data Center Interconnects. tions  Standards  Institute;  ETSI  GS  QKD  014  [10].  The  two
endpoints  of  the  QKD  system  were  connected  via  a  70  kmB.  Paper Organization Corning SMF-28 optical-fiber spool (ITU-T Recommendation
This article is organized as follows: Section II describes the G.652.D compliant).
establishment  of  a  QKD-secured  800  Gbps  optical  channel. The following list details the relevant specifications for this
Section III presents an inter-channel interference experimental configuration:
study.  Section  IV  focuses  on  the  distance-dependency  test •PCUT= 0 dBmresults. Sections V and VI provide the results of experiments •λCUT= 1531.51 nmconcerning  two  major  degradation  factors—attenuation  and •λS1= 1529.55 nmpolarization fluctuations, respectively—on the performance of •λS2= 1530.33 nmthe  quantum  channel.  Section  VIII  discusses  prior  art  in  the •λS3= 1528.77 nmfield of actual deployments of QKD-secured channels, making •λQC= 1312.73 nma  comparison  with  the  work  described  in  this  paper.  Finally, •SMF-28:α1550= 0.18 dB/kmSection IX concludes this article and illustrates opportunities •SMF-28:α1310= 0.32 dB/kmfor future research directions. Here,λCUTandPCUTrepresent  the  CUT’s  wavelength  and
II.  ESTABLISHING  AN800 GBPSQKD-SECUREDOPTICAL launch  power  respectively,λQCindicates  the  wavelength  of
CHANNEL the  quantum  channel,λS1,λS2,λS3represent  the  three  QKD
system service channels over the C-band andαis the attenu-Figure 1 depicts the abstract test-bed configuration used in ation coefficient.the trial. As seen from this figure, the optical data channel and
the  quantum  channel  are  multiplexed  on  a  Corning  SMF-28 It  should  be  mentioned  thatλCUTwas  placed  as  close  as
optical  fiber,  while  the  communications  between  the  optical possible  to  the  lower  edge  of  the  C-band  in  order  to  take
and QKD devices are established using Application Program- into account any potential interference from the QKD-secured
ming Interfaces (APIs) on both sides. optical channel on the quantum channel. Due to the presence
of  some  of  the  required  service  channels  on  the  C-band,Figure  2  shows  the  actual  test-bed  configuration.  Ciena 1531.51  nm  was  the  closest  channel  we  could  select  for  thisWaveserver 5 systems (referred to asthe Waveserver systems purpose.throughout this article) were utilized to establish an 800 Gbps
optical wave on the C-band as the Channel Under Test (CUT), Upon  deploying  this  configuration,  the  quantum-secured
which carries pseudo-random traffic. The Waveserver systems optical  channel  at  800  Gbps  was  established,  at  which  point
are able to generate and receive two 800 Gbps waves per sled the QKD systems, Alice and Bob, generated the keys. Those
and up to 4 sleds per system. However, during the course of keys  were  then  accessed  by  the  Waveserver  systems  to  se-
these  experimental  trials,  only  two  ports  (1/1  and  1/2)  were cure the optical link (CUT) using AES-256-GCM encryption
used  to  generate  the  800  Gpbs  waves  as  needed.  For  estab- over the Optical Transport Network (OTN) standard protocol.
lishing  the  quantum  channel,  the  Toshiba  Multiplexed  QKD Therefore,  in  this  configuration,  the  keys  were  generated  by
system (referred to asthe QKD systemthroughout this article) the QKD systems, while the actual encryption of the 800-Gbps
were  utilized.  This  system  consists  of  two  devices  which optical  channel  was  performed  by  the  Waveserver  systems
contain  transmitters,  receivers  and  post-processing  units  on using  the  AES-256-GCM  encryption  method  utilizing  the
both sides (AliceandBob), capable of establishing a quantum QKD-generated keys.
channel  in  order  to  generate  keys  based  on  the  Decoy-State III.  INTER-CHANNELINTERFERENCEPhase-Encoded Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) QKD protocol
[7]–[9].  These  devices  can  also  multiplex  incoming  optical After   successfully   establishing   an   800   Gbps   quantum-
channels on the C-band with their quantum channel generated secured optical channel at 70 km distance, in which the CUT
on the O-band, and launch both on the same optical fiber. and quantum channel were multiplexed on the same fiber, the


Fig. 1.   Abstract Test-Bed Configuration

next step was to add additional optical channels. This served module on the photonic line system, these multiplexed DWDM
two purposes: channels  (the  two  800  Gbps  and  eight  100  Gbps  channels)
1)  This configuration creates a more realistic and efficient were inserted into the QKD system, which in turn multiplexed
operational  environment  in  which  several  optical  chan- them  with  the  quantum  channel  running  on  the  O-band.  As
nels are multiplexed on the C-band via DWDM. before, the two endpoints of the QKD system were connected
2)  Multiplexing other optical channels results into launch- via 70 km of Corning SMF-28 fiber. It should be noted that,
ing higher powers into the fiber, which in turn induces in  Figure  3,Nλrepresents  all  other  wavelengths  thatλCUT
degradation  impacts—such  as  Raman  scattering  and has been multiplexed with on the C-band.
nonlinear effects—on the quantum channel. As before, these optical channels were also carefully placed
As  pointed  out  before,  the  Waveserver  systems  were  able as close as possible to the lower edge of the C-band in order
to  support  generation  of  two  800  Gbps  waves  per  sled.  In to maximize the potential of any inter-channel interference on
order to multiplex additional optical channels, the Ciena 6500 the quantum channel. Table I provides the channel lineup for
Photonic Line System (referred to asthe photonic line system this configuration.
throughout  this  article)  and  the  Ciena  6500  Transponders Channel Wavelength  (nm)(referred  to  asthe  transpondershereafter)  were  added  to CUT 1531.51the  test  bed.  The  transponders  that  were  available  in  the  lab Second 800G 1532.68
were  able  to  establish  100  Gbps  waves  on  the  International 100G No. 1 1533.86
100G No. 2 1534.25Telecommunication  Union  -  Telecommunication  (ITU-T)  C- 100G No. 3 1534.64band grid. By using the photonic line system, we were able to 100G No. 4 1535.04
multiplex  multiple  optical  channels  using  DWDM,  providing 100G No. 5 1535.43
100G No. 6 1535.82required amplification and preparing the signals for launching 100G No. 7 1536.22into the fiber. 100G No. 8 1536.61
This   configuration   is   depicted   in   Figure   3.   Here,   the TABLE I
CHANNELLINEUPWaveserver systems generated two 800 Gbps waves, the CUT
on port 1/1 and the second one on port 1/2. These waves were
then inserted into the photonic line system, which multiplexed Figure  4  shows  the  Quantum  Bit  Error  Rate  (QBER)  as
them with eight 100 Gbps DWDM channels generated by the a  function  of  the  number  of  optical  channels  as  they  were
transponders on the C-band. After passing through an amplifier added  one  by  one.  This  is  useful  to  study  the  impact  of  the


Fig. 2.   Actual Test-Bed Configuration

Fig. 3.   Test-Bed Configuration with All the DWDM Channels Added

inter-channel  interference  imposed  by  the  optical  channels IV.  DISTANCESTUDY
onto  the  quantum  channel.  As  seen  in  the  figure,  QBER
increased slightly as a function of the number of added optical The   focus   of   this   part   of   the   research   study   was   the
channels  (3.94%  to  4.14%),  due  to  the  Raman  scattering performance  of  the system  as  a  function  of  the distance.  For
of  the  DWDM  optical  channels  causing  interference  with this  purpose,  different  fiber  spools  were  used  to  analyze  the
the  quantum  channel.  However,  this  increase  was  very  well impact of increasing the distance on the system performance.
tolerated  by  the  system  and  did  not  have  any  impact  on  the All  fibers  were  of  type  Corning  SMF-28  G.652.D.  It  should
overall operational functionality. also  be  mentioned  that  for  80  km  to  100  km  distances,  the
launch power on the Waveserver systems were increased to 2
dBm in order to keep the 800 Gbps optical signals within the
acceptable power levels at the receivers.
Since this test-bed configuration is the closest to the actual Figure  5  shows  the  results  of  this  study.  Here,  an  SKR  of
operational  environments  in  the  field,  the  rest  of  the  experi- 66.16 kbps was achieved at a 70 km distance while securing
ments were conducted over this configuration. an  800  Gbps  optical  channel  multiplexed  with  another  800


4.15%

4.10%

4.05%

4.00%

QBER3.95%

3.90%

3.85%

2 4 6 8 10
Number of DWDM Channels

Fig. 4.   QBER vs Added DWDM Channels

Gbps and eight 100 Gbps channels on the C-band. Although channel.  The  VOA  attenuation  value  was  increased  at  1  dB
in this experiment there were ten optical channels present, at increments on an hourly basis and measurements were taken.
this rate the system has the potential to quantum-secure up to Figure 7 provides the results of this study. The baseline with
258  optical  channels  using  AES-256-GCM  encryption  while the  VOA  insertion  shows  a  bit  lower  performance  compared
refreshing  the  key  at  a  rate  of  1/sec.  Table  II  illustrates  the to the baseline without, i.e. a QBER of 3.61% vs 3.56% and
achieved SKR as a function of the distance. Notably, an SKR an SKR of 50 kbps vs 66.16 kbps. This might be attributed to
of 2 kbps was achieved at a distance of 100 km. a combination of the VOA insertion loss and additional signal
degradation at  the interfaces introduced  when connecting theDistance  (km) SKR  (bps) signal in and out of the VOA itself.70 66163
80 30500 Figure 7 also shows that the maximum attenuation tolerated
90 12000 on top of a 70 km fiber in this configuration was 9 db, after
100 2000 which  the  key  generation  process  stopped.This  is  explainedTABLE II
ACHIEVEDSKRVSDISTANCE by the decreasing number of photons in the quantum channel
arriving at the receiver due to increasing channel loss. Once the
received quantum channel photons approach the noise level of
the detectors, the signal-to-noise ratio becomes insufficient toV.  IMPACT OFATTENUATION distill QKD keys. This response to the induced attenuation in
Understanding  the  impact  of  increased  attenuation  on  the the form of gradual adjustment to the key generation rate—as
QKD  system  in  a  fixed-length  fiber  scenario  is  important  in opposed to an abrupt disruption in the process—is beneficial
order to understand the behavior of the system in a mission- in  mission-critical  operational  environment.  The  reason  for
critical  environment.  Whether  the  increased  attenuation  is this  is  that  in  those  environments,  it  is  vital  to  be  aware
as  a  result  of  a  physical  line  issue  or  the  presence  of  an of  any  degradation  in  the  communication  channel  before  the
eavesdropper,  the  network  operator  requires  enough  time  to actual  outage  takes  place.  In  that  way,  upon  observing  any
proactively investigate and avert an outage. In order to conduct degradation,  the  operator  can  proactively  run  a  diagnosis  on
this  study,  the  fiber  distance  was  set  to  the  baseline  value  of the  system,  identify  the  root  cause  (physical  line  issues  or
70 km and a Variable Optical Attenuator (VOA) was inserted presence of an eavesdropper), and take necessary action before
into the quantum channel. As shown in Figure 6, the insertion the system shuts down.
point  was  right  between  the  termination  point  of  the  70  km
fiber and the receiver port on Bob’s QKD system. The VOA VI.  POLARIZATIONFLUCTUATIONS
had  an  insertion  loss  of  0.737  dB  and  the  target  wavelength State of Polarization (SOP) fluctuation plays a major role as
was  set  to  1310  nm  in  order  to  directly  impact  the  quantum a degradation factor in fiber-optic networks. This effect, mostly


7.00% 70000
QBER
6.00% Secret Key Rate (bps) 60000

5.00% 50000

4.00% 40000

QBER3.00% 30000

2.00% 20000 Secret Key Rate (bps)

1.00% 10000

0.00% 0
70 75 80 85 90 95 100
Distance

Fig. 5.   Distance Study Results

Fig. 6.   Attenuation Testing Configuration

known  as  SOP  Transients,  is  present  in  most  operational order to prevent any service interruptions.
networks  as  a  result  of  vibrations  in  the  environment  such Figure  8  depicts  the  test-bed  configuration  for  the  SOPas  underground  fibers  installed  next  to  the  railroad  tracks, fluctuation study. Here, an SOP Controller was placed betweenlightning  strikes  and  other  factors.  As  an  example,  research the termination point of the 70 km fiber and the receiver portconducted  on  Optical  Ground  Wires  (OPGW)  has  revealed on Bob’s QKD system.SOP  Transients  on  the  order  of  5.1  Mrad/sec  as  a  result  of During the course of this study, it was observed that settinglightning  strikes  [11].  OPGW  is  an  aerial  cable  technology the  SOP  Controller  in  scrambling  mode  at  a  Stokes  angularspecifically designed for high voltage power line installations. velocity  of  50  rad/sec  in  a  sustained  mode  caused  the  keyThese  cables  consist  of  a  nucleus  containing  optical  fibers generation  process  to  stop.  Although  lightning  strikes  areand  an  armor,  generally  composed  of  one  or  more  layers  of usually  sub-millisecond  events,  their  impact  on  the  quantumaluminum wire, steel wire or aluminum-coated steel wire [12]. channel established on aerial OPGW fibers should be studied.Therefore, any system to be deployed in operational fiber-optic As  such,  based  on  the  findings  of  this  trial,  future  researchnetworks  should  be  able  to  tolerate  such  SOP  fluctuations  in into  quantifying  the  exact  impact  of  extreme  SOP  transients


7.00% 70000
QBER
6.00% Secret Key Rate (bps) 60000

5.00% 50000

4.00% 40000

QBER3.00% 30000

2.00% 20000 Secret Key Rate (bps)

1.00% 10000

0.00% 0
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
Induced Attenuation

Fig. 7.   Results of Study on Effect of Inducing Additional Attenuation on 70 km Fiber

on quantum channels and QKD systems are recommended. guarantees—this  time  against  participants  of  the  blockchain
protocol  rather  than  outside  attackers.  Specifically,  we  focusVII.  ROUTING ABLOCKCHAINAPPLICATION OVER THE on possible methods that may be used to achieve blockchainQUANTUM-SECUREDOPTICALCHANNEL consensus and enforce transaction integrity.
Blockchain  constructions  regularly  make  extensive  use  of The  Liink  network,  as  a  platform  used  by  financial  insti-
public-key cryptography for enforcing both confidentiality and tutions, deals with large amounts of confidential information.
integrity  through  the  use  of  encryption  and  digital-signature While  the  information  may  be  intended  to  be  read  by  other
schemes,  respectively.  Most  commonly,  these  cryptographic parties  in  the  network,  confidentiality  of  the  data  while  in
primitives  are  constructed  based  on  postulates,  such  as  the transit  must  be  retained  against  non-participants.  Currently,
discrete-log assumption used by Diffie-Hellman and the ellip- the  confidentiality  of  this  data  in  transit  is  protected  through
tic  curve  cryptosystems,  and  the  prime-factorization  assump- the use of standard public-key cryptographic schemes, which
tion used by RSA, both of which are now known to be false will not be sufficient against a quantum-capable eavesdropper.
in the face of a Shor’s Algorithm and a sufficiently powerful The Liink network is an example of a permissioned blockchain
quantum  computer  [13].  The  vulnerability  of  blockchain  ap- network. Therefore, there is a meaningful distinction between
plications to the attacks conducted by quantum computers in parties  that  are  and  are  not  authorized  participants  of  the
these ways have been well studied [14]–[16]. network. As such, we can differentiate those two sets of actors
In this section, we discuss the possibility of mitigating some and their distinct security profiles. Notably, we need not ensure
of these weaknesses with the use of QKD-generated symmetric that  transaction  data  remains  private  from  participants—only
keys. from non-participants. We note that here—and everywhere else
We   discuss   here,   as   an   example   of   the   confidentiality we discuss confidentiality—we only refer to the confidentiality
afforded  to  the  data-in-transit  of  an  application  deployed of the data-in-transit against a non-participant, not the data-at-
over  the  quantum-secured  channel,  the  security  guarantees rest.
we achieved experimentally against a quantum-capable eaves- The   use   of   the   quantum-secured   channel   allows   us   to
dropper  hoping  to  compromise  the  security  of  a  blockchain achieve  confidentiality  against  even  quantum-equipped  non-
application. Specifically, we installed and deployed the Liink participants. In the experimental trial, as shown in the lab test-
blockchain  network  [17]—a  permissioned  blockchain  based bed depicted in Figure 9, the Liink application and transaction
on  the  Quorum  protocol  [18]  in  use  by  JPMorgan  Chase data  were  transmitted  between  two  virtual  machines  (VMs)
to  process  payments—and  linked  the  nodes  over  quantum- across  the  800  Gbps  quantum-secured  optical  channel  (the
secured  channels.  We  start  by  describing  briefly  the  Liink CUT).  The  VMs  were  connected  to  switches  that  were  in
blockchain network to give motivation for why QKD may be turn  connected  to  the  Waveserver  systems  via  100  Gbps
applicable to it and other permissioned blockchain networks to Ethernet  links,  the  output  of  which,  carrying  the  traffic,  was
protect their data in transit. Following that, we illustrate what then  sent  over  the  CUT.  A  lightweight  version  of  the  Liink
additional  tools  may  be  deployed  to  enforce  further  security application was setup for this experiment. All communications


Fig. 8.   SOP Fluctuation Study Test-Bed Configuration

between  the  two  blockchain  nodes  Alice  and  Bob,  including ledger, even in the presence of some number of misbehaving
Peer  Discovery,  consensus  and  transaction  propagation,  were participants  with  access  to  less  than  51%  of  the  total  stake
conducted  over  the  quantum-secured  optical  channel.  Upon in  the  network.  As  a  necessary  step  of  the  Liink  protocol,
initiating  a  transaction  by  node  Alice,  a  listener  process  on some  subset  of  the  participants,  referred  to  asvalidators,  all
node  Bob  confirmed  the  receipt  of  the  transaction  along receive,  separately,  a  given  transaction.  For  them  to  validate
with  its  addition  into  the  block.  Once  included  in  the  block, the  transaction  and  update  the  ledger,  they  must  first  ensure
the  transaction  was  considered  confirmed  via  the  consensus that they all received the same transaction, reaching consensus
mechanism.  During  this  experiment,  the  application  did  not on it. This is achieved through byzantine agreement schemes
encrypt the JSON payload in the transaction that it published [20], which commonly make use of broadcast protocols, which
on blockchain since protection was provided by the quantum- enable all of the participants to verify that they have received
secured channel. the same message. A natural extension of our proof of concept
Without  the  quantum-secured  channel,  the  Liink  protocol to  more  nodes  encrypts  the  payloads  via  QKD-generated
must use standard public-key cryptographic schemes to secure keys, making the construction and use of a broadcast channel
the  confidentiality  of  the  information  in  transaction  payloads costly due to the necessary cross-comparisons of a byzantine
against  eavesdroppers.  Such  encryption  schemes  rely  on  the agreement protocol, but the use of optimally resilient verifiable
standard  assumptions  necessary  for  public  key  cryptography, secret-sharing  schemes  [21],  [22]  can  increase  the  efficiency,
which  are  known  to  be  vulnerable  to  attacks  realizable  on in a fully connected graph, and still allow the participants to
powerful quantum computers expected to become available in reach consensus. In this approach, a transaction is split inton
the  future.  By  routing  the  traffic  over  the  quantum-secured shares according to ak-out-of-n(optionally verifiable) secret-
channel,  we  replaced  the  public-key  cryptographic  schemes sharing scheme, with thesenshares being distributed over the
with  QKD-enabled  symmetric-key  cryptography  and  ensured QKD-secured links to thenparticipants in the network, under
that  a  quantum-equipped  eavesdropper  cannot  decrypt  the the assumption that the network is fully connected. When it is
traffic,  including  sensitive  transaction  data.  As  a  result,  we their turn to validate a transaction, somekparticipants can then
achieve  the  first  of  our  discussed  guarantees:  confidentiality form a quorum and recover the transaction from the shares. In
against  a  non-permissioned  attacker.  Ensuring  that  a  non- doing  so,  they  all  necessarily  agree  on  the  same  transaction,
permissioned  party  cannot  introduce  forged  messages  into ensuring consensus [23].
the  network  can  be  done  through  the  use  of  symmetric-key Finally,  we  note  that  it  is  necessary  that  participants  ofbased information-theoretic message authentication codes [19] the  network  are  confident  that  a  transaction  originates  fromthereby achieving our second guarantee: message integrity. As the  participant  it  purports  to  originate  from.  In  our  case,a result, we achieve both of the previously discussed guaran- where  the  underlying  QKD  network  is  complete,  and  alltees:  confidentiality  and  integrity  against  a  non-permissioned parties  therefore  share  pairwise  secret  keys,  the  participantsattacker. may make use of group message-authentication codes that are
Given  the  above  changes  to  the  Liink  application,  it  is information-theoretic  secure  to  ensure  integrity  [24].  With  a
crucial  that  the  participants  of  the  blockchain  network  are complete  network  we  are  then  able  to  achieve  consensus  as
still  able  to  achieve  consensus  regarding  the  state  of  the well  as  efficiently  achieve  transaction  integrity  without  the


use  of  some  underlying  computational  assumptions.  In  the Kpbs,  which  would  be  able  to  support  258  quantum-secured
case of incomplete networks, the design of methods that allow DWDM data channels using AES-256-GCM encryption with
validators  to  verify  the  origin  of  the  transactions  they  reach the  key  refresh  rate  of  1/sec.  In  addition,  during  the  course
consensus on without the use of such additional assumptions of these trials, transporting a blockchain application over this
will be part of future work. established channel was utilized as a demonstration of securing
a financial transaction in transit over a quantum-secured opticalVIII.  RELATEDWORK channel.  This  experimental  research  was  conducted  purely
Although  experimental  trials  have  been  previously  con- based on real-world operational equipment and no simulation
ducted to investigate QKD technology, they have been done on or emulation was used to replace them.
a limited scale or under conditions that do not represent real- Deployment of such high-capacity quantum-secured optical
world, high-capacity operational environments. In this section, channels  while  multiplexed  with  the  quantum  channel  in  the
some  of  these  efforts  are  discussed.  For  a  more  extensive real-world  mission-critical  operational  environments  would
survey  of  previous  experimental  results  regrading  real  world introduce challenges due to some strict requirements such as
QKD networks, see [6], [25]. high  launch  powers  and  polarization  fluctuations  that  would
In 2005 researchers at DARPA deployed the first real world have  negative  impact  on  the  performance  of  the  quantum
QKD network in which they achieved 1 kbps SKR at 10 km channel. Therefore, in the course of this research, experimental
distance  over  a  non-muxed  dedicated  quantum  channel  [26]. studies  were  conducted  on  the  impact  of  several  degradation
In [27], a SKR of 3.1 kbps with QBER of 2.6% over 33 km factors  present  in  the  real-world  operational  environment  on
of  non-muxed  dedicated  quantum  channel  was  achieved  as the quantum channel, including inter-channel interference (due
part of the SECOQC project which realized a multi-platform to  effects  such  as  Raman  scattering  and  nonlinear  effects),
QKD network operating in Vienna. Further, researchers in [28] attenuation, polarization fluctuations and distance dependency.
achieved 18 kbps at 90 km on a non-muxed dedicated quantum During the course of this investigation, the entire system under
channel  on  a  link  in  the  Tokyo  QKD  network  in  2011.  As test   exhibited   resiliency   against   most   degradation   factors.
pointed  out  before,  the  ability  to  multiplex  both  DWDM  op- However,  based  on  our  findings,  some  recommendations  are
tical channels and quantum channel are of utmost importance made towards meeting the strict requirements for deployment
in  the  real-world  operational  environments.  Therefore,  these in  a  mission-critical  operational  environments.  These  include
works cannot be considered for such deployments. future  research  into  quantifying  the  exact  impact  of  extreme
Indeed there have also been previous efforts to multiplex the SOP  transients  on  quantum  channels  and  QKD  systems  and
optical channels with the quantum channel. It was first shown introducing quantum channel performance degradation alarms
that it was possible to do so in [29], where a quantum channel for  proactive  diagnosis  by  the  network  operators  to  prevent
was multiplexed with a 1.2 Gbps classical channel over 28 km. outages.
In [30] researchers followed up on this work by multiplexing The  findings  of  this  research  pave  the  way  towards  the
4 DWDM channels with a quantum channel, in which those 4 deployment  of  quantum-secured  optical  channels  based  on
channels were used for key distillation and 1 Gbps encrypted QKD technology in high-capacity metro-scale mission-critical
communication.  This  work  resulted  into  a  SKR  of  11  bps  at operational environments, such as Inter-Data Center Intercon-
a  maximum  distance  of  50  km.  In  [31]  a  CV-QKD  channel nects.
multiplexed  with  one  DWDM  channel  was  demonstrated.  In
this  demonstration  the  single  DWDM  channel  was  run  at  -3 DISCLAIMERdBm and at 75 km a key rate of 0.49 kbps was achieved. In
[32] two 100 Gbps DWDM channels (at 1529.55 and 1529.94 This  paper  was  prepared  for  information  purposes  by  the
nm)  were  multiplexed  with  the  QKD  quantum  channel  on teams  of  researchers  from  the  various  institutions  identified
1547.72 nm. In [33] multiple 200 Gbps and 100 Gbps channels above,  including  the  Future  Lab  for  Applied  Research  and
were multiplexed with quantum channel running at 1310 nm. Engineering (FLARE) group of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A..
For  this  experiment,  the  polarization  encoding  decoy-state This  paper  is  not  a  product  of  the  Research  Department  of
BB84 protocol QKD was utilized. During this trial, a 3 kbps JPMorgan  Chase  &  Co.  or  its  affiliates.  Neither  JPMorgan
SKR at 66 km of G652 fiber was achieved. Chase  &  Co.  nor  any  of  its  affiliates  make  any  explicit  or
implied  representation  or  warranty  and  none  of  them  acceptIX.  CONCLUSION any liability in connection with this paper, including, but lim-
To  the  best  of  our  knowledge,  in  this  research  study,  for ited  to,  the  completeness,  accuracy,  reliability  of  information
the  first  time  an  800-Gbps  quantum-secured  optical  channel contained  herein  and  the  potential  legal,  compliance,  tax  or
along with several other DWDM channels on the C-band and accounting  effects  thereof.  This  document  is  not  intended  as
multiplexed  with  the  QKD  quantum  channel  on  the  O-band investment  research  or  investment  advice,  or  a  recommen-
at  distances  up  to  100  km  with  secure  key  rates  relevant dation,  offer  or  solicitation  for  the  purchase  or  sale  of  any
for  use  in  real-world  mission-critical  applications  has  been security,  financial  instrument,  financial  product  or  service,  or
established.  At  70  km  distance  over  Corning  SMF-28  fiber, to be used in any way for evaluating the merits of participating
this  system  was  able  to  provide  a  secure  key  rate  of  66.16 in any transaction.


Fig. 9.   Blockchain Application Transport Test-Bed Configuration

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS [7] M.  Lucamarini,  K.  Patel,  J.  Dynes,et  al.,  “Efficient  decoy-
state  quantum  key  distribution  with  quantified  security,”Op-The  authors  would  like  to  thank  the  following  people  for tics express, vol. 21, no. 21, pp. 24 550–24 565, 2013.their invaluable contributions and support to this project: Lori [8] C. H. Bennett and G. Brassard, “Quantum cryptography: Pub-Beer,  George  A.  Sherman,  Andrew  J.  Lang,  Patrick  P.  Opet, lic  key  distribution  and  coin  tossing,”International  Confer-
Umar Farooq, Christine Moy, Matthew Tice, Beata Shahriari, ence on Computers, Systems & Signal Processing, Bangalore,
Myron  Wieneke,  Stephen  Gannon,  Charles  Carley,  Douglas India, 1984.
[9] Z.  Yuan,  A.  Plews,  R.  Takahashi,et  al.,  “10-Mb/s  QuantumB. David, Michael P. Lombardi, Mike Rutigliano, Paula Varas, Key Distribution,”Journal of Lightwave Technology, vol. 36,Stephen I. Winer, Jennifer H. Lavoie, Daniel Cantor, Hargun no. 16, pp. 3427–3433, 2018.Kalsi,  Michael  Hattery,  Alejandro  Poggi,  Chaddy  Huussin [10] https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsigs/QKD/001099/014/01.01.
and Emily Mullins from JPMorgan Chase; Terry Cronin from 0160/gsQKD014v010101p.pdf.
Toshiba; and Patrick Skully, Daniel McCarthy, Chris Howard, [11] D. Charlton, S. Clarke, D. Doucet,et al., “Field Measurements
of  SOP  Transients  in  OPGW,  with  Time  and  Location  Cor-John P. Ferrel, Sebastien Gareau and Yves Cayer from Ciena. relation to Lightning Strikes,”Optics Express, vol. 25, no. 9,
REFERENCES pp. 9689–9696, 2017.
[12] International  Telecommunications  Union,  Optical  fibres,  ca-[1] P.  W.  Shor  and  J.  Preskill,  “Simple  Proof  of  Security  of  the bles and systems, 2009.BB84  Quantum  Key  Distribution  Protocol,”Physical  review [13] P. Shor, “Algorithms for Quantum Computation: Discrete Log-letters, vol. 85, no. 2, p. 441, 2000. arithms  and  Factoring,”  inProceedings  35th  Annual  Sympo-[2] H.-K. Lo and H. F. Chau, “Unconditional Security of Quantum sium on Foundations of Computer Science, 1994, pp. 124–134.Key  Distribution  over  Arbitrarily  Long  Distances,”science, DOI: 10.1109/SFCS.1994.365700.vol. 283, no. 5410, pp. 2050–2056, 1999. [14] A. K. Fedorov, E. O. Kiktenko, and A. I. Lvovsky,Quantum[3] M. Koashi, “Unconditional Security of Quantum Key Distri- Computers Put Blockchain Security at Risk, 2018.bution and the Uncertainty Principle,” inJournal of Physics: [15] B.  Rodenburg  and  S.  P.  Pappas,  “Blockchain  and  QuantumConference Series, IOP Publishing, vol. 36, 2006, p. 016. Computing,” The Mitre Corporation, Tech. Rep., 2017.[4] R. Alleaume, C. Branciard, J. Bouda, ́ et al., “Using Quantum [16] N.   Kappert,   E.   Karger,   and   M.   Kureljusic,   “QuantumKey  Distribution  for  Cryptographic  Purposes:  A  Survey,” Computing—The Impending End for the Blockchain?”Quan-Theoretical Computer Science, vol. 560, pp. 62–81, 2014. tum, vol. 7, pp. 12–2021, 2021.[5] L. Gyongy ̈ osi, L. Bacsardi, and S. Imre, “A Survey on Quan- ̈ [17] Liink,  Accessed  on  Jan  31,  2022.  [Online].  Available:  https:tum Key Distribution,”Infocommunications Journal, vol. 11, //www.jpmorgan.com/onyx/liink.no. 2, pp. 14–21, 2019. [18] ConsenSys,Consensys/Quorum: A Permissioned Implementa-[6] O.  Amer,  V.  Garg,  and  W.  O.  Krawec,  “An  Introduction  to tion of Ethereum Supporting Data Privacy, Accessed on JanPractical  Quantum  Key  Distribution,”IEEE  Aerospace  and 31, 2022. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/ConsenSys/Electronic Systems Magazine, vol. 36, no. 3, pp. 30–55, 2021. quorum.DOI: 10.1109/MAES.2020.3015571.


[19] M. N. Wegman and J. L. Carter, “New hash functions and their [26] C. Elliott, A. Colvin, D. Pearson,et al.,Current Status of the
use  in  authentication  and  set  equality,”Journal  of  computer DARPA Quantum Network, 2005. arXiv: quant-ph/0503058.
and system sciences, vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 265–279, 1981. [27] M.  Peev,  C.  Pacher,  R.  Alleaume,et  al.,  “The  SECOQC
[20] J.  Katz  and  C.-Y.  Koo,  “On  Expected  Constant-Round  Pro- Quantum  Key  Distribution  Network  in  Vienna,”  eng,NEW
tocols  for  Byzantine  Agreement,”  inAnnual  International JOURNAL OF PHYSICS, vol. 11, ?–? 2009,ISSN: 1367-2630.
Cryptology Conference, Springer, 2006, pp. 445–462. [28] M.  Sasaki,  M.  Fujiwara,  H.  Ishizuka,et  al.,  “Field  Test  of
[21] A. Choudhury, A. Patra,et al., “A Survey on Perfectly-Secure Quantum  Key  Distribution  in  the  Tokyo  QKD  Network,”
Verifiable  Secret-Sharing,”arXiv  preprint  arXiv:2112.11393, Optics express, vol. 19, no. 11, pp. 10 387–10 409, 2011.
2021. [29] P. D. Townsend, “Simultaneous Quantum Cryptographic Key
[22] A.  Beimel,  “Secret-Sharing  Schemes:  Survey,”  inInterna- Distribution  and  Conventional  Data  Transmission  over  In-
tional  conference  on  coding  and  cryptology,  Springer,  2011, stalled Fibre Using Wavelength-Division Multiplexing,”Elec-
pp. 11–46. tronics Letters, vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 188–190, 1997.
[23] R. Canetti and T. Rabin, “Fast asynchronous byzantine agree- [30] P.  Eraerds,  N.  Walenta,  M.  Legre,et  al.,  “Quantum  Key
ment with optimal resilience,” inProceedings of the Twenty- Distribution and 1 Gbps Data Encryption over a Single Fibre,”
Fifth  Annual  ACM  Symposium  on  Theory  of  Computing, New Journal of Physics, vol. 12, p. 063 027, 2010.
ser. STOC ’93, San Diego, California, USA: Association for [31] R. Kumar, H. Qin, and R. Alleaume, “Coexistence of Contin- ́
Computing Machinery, 1993, pp. 42–51,ISBN: 0897915917. uous Variable QKD with Intense DWDM Classical Channels,”
DOI: 10.1145/167088.167105. [Online]. Available: https://doi. New Journal of Physics, vol. 17, no. 4, p. 043 027, 2015.
org/10.1145/167088.167105. [32] J.  F.  Dynes,  W.  W.  Tam,  A.  Plews,et  al.,  “Ultra-high  band-
[24] R.  Amiri,  A.  Abidin,  P.  Wallden,et  al.,  “Efficient  Uncon- width quantum secured data transmission,”Scientific reports,
ditionally  Secure  Signatures  Using  Universal  Hashing,”  in vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 1–6, 2016.
Applied Cryptography and Network Security, B. Preneel and [33] Y.  Mao,  B.-X.  Wang,  C.  Zhao,et  al.,  “Integrating  Quantum
F. Vercauteren, Eds., Cham: Springer International Publishing, Key Distribution with Classical Communications in Backbone
2018, pp. 143–162,ISBN: 978-3-319-93387-0. Fiber Network,”Optics express, vol. 26, no. 5, pp. 6010–6020,
[25] P. Sharma, A. Agrawal, V. Bhatia,et al., “Quantum Key Dis- 2018.
tribution  Secured  Optical  Networks:  A  Survey,”IEEE  Open
Journal  of  the  Communications  Society,  vol.  2,  pp.  2049–
2083, 2021.DOI: 10.1109/OJCOMS.2021.3106659.
