

US 20190034926A1

( 19 ) United States
( 12 ) Patent Application Publication (  10 ) Pub . No . : US 2019 / 0034926 A1
DAVIS  ( 43 ) Pub . Date :    Jan . 31  , 2019

( 54 )  METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR  ( 52 )  U . S . CI  . TRANSACTION PROCESSING MSSOR WO WITH  CPC . . . . .  G06Q 20 / 3825 ( 2013 . 01 ) ; G06Q 20 / 3827 COMPLETE CRYPTOGRAPHIC  ( 2013 . 01  ) AUDITABILITY
( 57  )  ABSTRACT

( 71 )  Applicant  : Mastercard International  A method for processing of a cryptographically auditable Incorporated , Purchase , NY ( US  )  transaction includes : receiving payment data , wherein the
payment data includes at least a primary account number ;
( 72 )  Inventor :  Steven Charles DAVIS , Saint Peters ,  transmitting the primary account number to  a  computing MO ( US  )  system ; receiving a confirmation associated with the primary
account number from  the computing system ; transmitting a
( 73 )  Assignee : Mastercard International
Incorporated , Purchase , NY ( US )  payment request to  the computing  system , wherein the
payment request includes at least a reference value associ

( 21  )  Appl . No  . : 15 / 658 , 573  ated with a  payment transaction ; receiving an acceptance
request from  the computing system , wherein the acceptance
request includes at least the reference value  , an acceptance ( 22 )  Filed :  Jul . 25 , 2017  address , one or more fee values , and a first digital signature
generated by a  third  party ;  generating  a  second digital Publication Classification  signature using at least the acceptance address ; and trans

( 51  )  Int . CI  .  mitting at least the second digital signature to the computing
G06Q 20 / 38  ( 2006 . 01 )  system .

100
Blockchain
- 114

Network

112

110

Sending  Receiving
Computing  Computing
System  System
Moderating

106  Computing System  - 108

104 102

Purchasing Entity  Supplying Entity


Patent Application Publication  Jan . 31 , 2019 Sheet 1 of 9 US 2019 / 0034926 A1

104

Supplying

Receiving Computing
System
Entity

114

-  110

FIG . 1

Computing System

Blockchain
Network
Moderating

112

Purchasing Entity
Sending  System

Computing

100
1063


Patent Application Publication  Jan . 31 , 2019 Sheet 2 of 9 US 2019 / 0034926 A1

- 202  216 -  218 -  220  222

Receiving Device
Querying
Signing

Module  Module  Module
Transmitting Device

Generation

204  FIG . 2

Module

Communication

200

Memory

Account
Input

Database
Account
Profiles  Device
Module

Verification

14
210  224


Patent Application Publication  Jan . 31 , 2019 Sheet 3 of 9 US 2019 / 0034926 A1

110  - 310  312

1308

Moderating Computing System
Routing Number Request  Identify Routing Number

Number Routing Transmit |

-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

108  318  322

FIG . 3

Receiving Computing System

Verification Request  Verify Account Eligibility

Transmit Confirmation

-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  +  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

106

Sending Computing System  Receive Transaction Data
Identify Receiving Entity
Request Routing Number  Routing Number

Account Confirmation
3164  Request  Account  Verification

302  304  314 31


Patent Application Publication  Jan . 31 , 2019 Sheet 4 of 9  US 2019 / 0034926 A1

110
416  418

F414

Moderating Computing System  Signed Request
Identify Processing Fees

Identify Acceptance Address

108

Receiving Computing System  Payment Request

Generate Signature
Transmit  Signed  Request  FIG . 4A

| 4127

106

Sending Computing System
Submit Payment Request

402 Generate  Reference 4 Value 404 Generate  Payment 4 Request

406


Patent Application Publication  Jan . 31 , 2019 Sheet 5 of 9  US 2019 / 0034926 A1

110  420  422

Moderating Computing System

Signature Generate  Return Transaction Data

-  -  -  -  -  -  +  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

108  |

Receiving Computing System  Transaction  Data
Submit Acceptance Request  Generate Transaction Value  FIG . 4B

Transaction  Acceptance  Post to Blockchain Post  to

424  438

-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -

106

Sending Computing System  Acceptance  Request

Generate  Signature
Accept Transaction

428 y

4307  432


Patent Application Publication  Jan . 31 , 2019 Sheet 6 of 9  US 2019 / 0034926 A1

- 502  504  506  - 508  510  512  514

request includes at least the reference value , an acceptance address , one or more fee values , and a first digital signature generated by a

Electronically transmit , by a transmitting device of the processing server , the primary account number to a computing system

Electronically transmit , by the transmitting device of the processing server , a payment request to the computing system , wherein the payment

system  party
Electronically transmit , by the transmitting device of the processing server , at least the second digital signature to the computing system  FIG . 5
third

request includes at least a reference value associated with a payment transaction

Receive , by an input device of a processing server , payment data , wherein the payment data includes at least a primary account number  Receive , by the receiving device of the processing server , an acceptance request from the computing system , wherein the acceptance  Generate , by a signing module of the processing server , a second digital signature using at least the acceptance address

Receive , by a receiving device of the processing server , a confirmation associated with the primary account number from the computing

500


Patent Application Publication  Jan . 31 , 2019 Sheet 7 of 9 US 2019 / 0034926 A1

602  604  606  610  | 614
L608

Electronically transmit , by a transmitting device of the processing server , at least the first digital signature and the payment request to a

Electronically transmit , by the transmitting device of the processing server , an acceptance request to the first computing system , wherein the

confirmation message includes at least one or more fee values , a second digital signature , and an acceptance address
acceptance request includes at least the reference value , the one or more fee values , the second digital signature , and the acceptance
Electronically transmit , by the transmitting device of the processing server , a transaction value to a node associated with a blockchain  FIG . 6

second computing system
message includes at least a third digital signature  network , wherein the transaction value includes at least the reference value , the acceptance address , and the third digital signature

Receive , by the receiving device of the processing server , a confirmation message from the second computing system , wherein the
address  Receive , by the receiving device of the processing server , an acceptance message from the first computing system , wherein the acceptance L612

Receive , by a receiving device of a processing server , a payment request from a first computing system , wherein the payment request includes at least a reference value associated with a payment transaction  Generate , by a signing module of the processing server , a first digital signature using at least the received payment request

600


Patent Application Publication  Jan . 31 , 2019 Sheet 8 of 9 US 2019 / 0034926 A1

702  704  706  708  710  712  - 714

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . .

Electronically transmit , by a transmitting device of the processing server , at least the one or more fee values , the acceptance address , and

blockchain data includes one or more blocks comprising a blockchain , each block being comprised of at least a block header and one or

more transaction values , wherein each transaction value includes at least a transaction address , a transaction reference , and a transaction
included transaction reference and the reference value FIG . 7

least a reference value associated with a payment transaction and a first digital signature  Execute , by a querying module of the processing server , a first query to identify one or more feel values for the payment transaction and a second query to identify an acceptance address  Generate , by a signing module of the processing server , a second digital signature  the second digital signature to the computing system
signature

Receive , by the receiving device of the processing server , blockchain data from a node associated with the blockchain network , wherein the  where the included transaction address corresponds to the acceptance address

Receive , by a receiving device of a processing server , a payment request from a computing system , wherein the payment request includes at  Execute , by the querying module of the processing server , a query on the received blockchain data to identify a specific transaction value  Verify , by a verification module of the processing server , the specific transaction value based on at least a correspondence between the

. . . . . . . . . . . .
.
.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

700


Patent Application Publication  Jan . 31 , 2019 Sheet 9 of 9 US 2019 / 0034926 A1

826
818

Path  Storage Unit  Storage Unit

822

Removable  Removable

Communications
812  814

w

. .  . . . . . .

810

muuttuu  Secondary Memory  Hard Disk Drive
Storage Drive

Interface  Interface  820

Removable

Communications

800
FIG . 8

mmmmmmm
Infrastructure

Communications

804  802  808

Display
Main  Memory

Processor
Interface

830

Display


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019

METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR  between the two involved parties may minimize the need to
TRANSACTION PROCESSING WITH  rely on a moderator , which may reduce the data exchanged COMPLETE CRYPTOGRAPHIC  in the conducting of the transaction while still maintaining
AUDITABILITY  the benefits of a moderator . The moderator may provide a
third  party acknowledgement of a transaction for further
FIELD  verification thereof and may  , in exemplary embodiments , act

[ 0001 ]  The present disclosure relates to the processing of  as a third party facilitator of settlement between the trans

electronic transactions with  complete cryptographic audit  acting entities , enabling transactions to be conducted more

ability , specifically the use of a moderating system  between  easily  with  less resources  expended by the transacting

two entities engaged in a  transaction  and a blockchain for  entities . The use of a blockchain to  store the data related to
the transactions also provides additional benefits ; in particu complete auditability and transparency of the transaction for
every involved party .  lar , transaction records stored  therein cannot be tampered
with without immediate detection , and the immutability of
the blockchain provides for complete cryptographic audit BACKGROUND  ability of every transaction by involved entities . As a result ,

[ 0002  ]  Entities  engage in  transactions  for a  variety  of  entities may engage in transactions for which cryptographic
reasons ,  such  as  the use  and / or purchase  of goods or  auditability is maintained , while expending less resources
services . In many instances , an entity will keep a  record of  and achieving faster processing than available in  existing

their transactions , such as for accounting purposes , or for  systems  .
dispute settlement between themselves and another entity .  [ 0006 ]  A method for processing of a cryptographically For instance , if the entity is accused of missing a payment ,  auditable transaction includes : receiving , by an input device
the entity can look at their record of transactions to find such  of a processing server , payment data , wherein the payment
a  payment or lack  thereof  . However ,  such  records often  data includes at least a primary account number  ; electroni
require management and upkeep by the entity themselves , or  cally transmitting , by a transmitting device of the processing
require the entity  to hire  a  third party  to  maintain  such  server  , the primary account number to a  computing system ;
records .  receiving , by a receiving device of the processing server , a
10003 ]  In  addition , the management and maintenance of  confirmation associated with  the primary account number
such records by individual entities can also result in  two  from  the computing system ; electronically transmitting , by
transacting entities having disputing records of a transaction .  the transmitting device of the processing server , a payment
For instance , two parties in  a transaction may each have  request to  the computing  system , wherein the payment
records indicating a different amount paid between the two  request includes at least a reference value associated with a
parties , where there may be no easy resolution for a payment  payment transaction ; receiving , by the receiving device of
dispute between the two  , as each party may point to  their  the processing server  , an acceptance request from the com own records for their position , but have no  easy way to  puting system , wherein the acceptance request includes at
determine which party ' s record is accurate . In  some cases ,  least the reference value , an acceptance address , one or more
transacting entities may use a third party to keep records on  fee values , and a first digital signature generated by a third
a transaction , such as via the use of an escrow agent or other  party ;  generating , by a  signing module of the processing
intermediary .  These can be done using electronic records ,  server , a second digital signature using at least the accep
such as an accounting program or programs  , which often  tance address ; and electronically transmitting , by the trans
require accurate input of transaction details . Even when  mitting device of the processing server , at least the second
parts of this process are automated , such records may still be  digital signature to the computing system .
subject to tampering or inaccuracies from  other sources and

a  transacting  entity  may have no ability  to  audit  such  [ 0007 ]  Another method for processing of a cryptographi

records ,  particularly  of each of the two or three parties  cally auditable transaction includes : receiving , by a receiv

involved . To do so would require accessing different com  ing device of a processing server , a  payment request from  a

puters , different , selected records perhaps kept in  different  first  computing  system ,  wherein  the  payment request

formats , and designing a program complicated enough to  includes at least a reference value associated with a payment
transaction ; generating , by a  signing module of the process check for a variety of irregularities and non - matching record  ing server , a  first digital signature using at least the received elements .  payment request ; electronically transmitting , by a  transmit
[ 0004 ]  Thus , there is  a need for a technological solution
whereby records may be kept for an  electronic transaction  ting device of the processing server , at least the first digital
signature and the payment request to a  second computing between two entities that has complete cryptographic audit
ability to  ensure  auditability of the transaction by  the  system ; receiving , by the receiving device of the processing
server , a confirmation message from  the second computing involved entities , ensure that the transaction record is accu  system , wherein the confirmation message includes at least
rate as to the transaction as decided by each involved entity ,
and eliminate or strongly mitigate the possibility of the  one or more fee values , a second digital signature , and an
acceptance address  ; electronically transmitting , by the trans record being tampered with .  mitting device of the processing server ,  an  acceptance
SUMMARY  request to  the first computing system , wherein the accep
tance request includes at least the reference value , the one or

[ 0005 ]  The present disclosure provides a description of  more fee  values ,  the  second  digital signature  ,  and the
systems and methods for the processing of cryptographically  acceptance address ; receiving , by the receiving device of the
auditable transactions . A transaction is agreed upon by two  processing server , an  acceptance message from  the first
entities as parties thereof , where a  third party is used to  computing  system ,  wherein  the  acceptance  message
moderate the transaction . The transaction happening directly  includes at least a third digital signature ; and electronically


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019

transmitting , by the transmitting device of the processing  configured to generate a first digital signature using at least
server , a transaction value to  a node associated  with  a  the received payment request ; and a transmitting device of
blockchain network , wherein the transaction value includes  the processing server configured to  electronically transmit at
at least the reference value , the acceptance address , and the  least the first digital signature and the payment request to a

third digital signature .  second computing system , wherein the receiving device of

[ 0008 ]  Yet another method for processing of a  crypto  the processing server is  further configured  to  receive a

graphically auditable transaction includes : receiving , by a  confirmation message from  the second computing system ,
receiving device of a processing server , a payment request  wherein the confirmation message includes at least one or
from  a  computing  system , wherein the payment request  more fee values , a second digital signature , and an accep
includes at least a reference value associated with a payment  tance address ,  the transmitting device of the processing

transaction and a  first digital signature  ;  executing , by  a  server is  further configured  to  electronically transmit an
querying module of the processing server , a  first query to  acceptance request to the first computing system , wherein

identify one or more fee values for the payment transaction  the acceptance request includes at least the reference value  ,
and  a  second  query  to  identify  an  acceptance address ;  the one or more fee values , the second digital signature , and
generating , by a signing module of the processing server , a  the acceptance address , the receiving device of the process
second digital signature ; electronically transmitting , by a  ing server is further configured  to  receive an  acceptance
transmitting device of the processing server , at least the one message from  the  first  computing  system ,  wherein the
or more fee values  , the acceptance address , and the second  acceptance message includes at least a  third  digital signa

digital signature to the computing system ; receiving , by the  ture , and the transmitting device of the processing server is

receiving device of the processing server , blockchain data  further configured to  electronically  transmit a  transaction

from  a  node  associated  with  the  blockchain  network ,  value  to  a  node associated  with  a  blockchain  network ,
wherein the blockchain data includes one or more blocks  wherein the transaction value includes at least the reference
comprising a blockchain , each block being comprised of at  value , the acceptance address , and the third digital signature .

least a block header and one or more transaction values ,  [ 0011 ]  Yet another system  for processing  of a  crypto
wherein each transaction value includes at least a transaction  graphically auditable transaction includes :  a  verification
address  , a transaction reference , and a transaction signature ;  module of a  processing server ;  a  receiving device of the
executing , by the querying module of the processing server ,  processing server configured to receive a payment request

a query on the received blockchain data to identify a specific  from  a  computing  system , wherein the payment request

transaction value where the  included transaction address  includes at least a reference value associated with a payment
corresponds to  the acceptance address ; and verifying , by a  transaction and a  first digital signature ; a querying module of

verification module of the processing server , the specific  the processing server configured to execute a first query to
transaction value  based on  at least  a  correspondence  identify one or more fee values for the payment transaction
between the included transaction reference and the reference  and a  second query to  identify  an acceptance address ; a

value .  signing module of the processing server configured to  gen

[ 0009 ]  A  system  for processing  of a  cryptographically  erate a second digital signature ; and a transmitting device of

auditable transaction includes : a  signing module of a pro  the processing server configured to  electronically transmit at

cessing server ; an input device of the processing server  least the one or more fee values , the acceptance address , and

configured to receive payment data , wherein the payment  the second digital signature  to the  computing  system ,

data includes at least a primary account number ; a trans  wherein the receiving device of the processing server is

mitting device of the processing server configured to  elec  further configured to  receive blockchain data from  a node

tronically transmit the primary account number to  a com  associated with the blockchain network , wherein the block
puting system , and  a  receiving  device of the processing  chain data includes one or more blocks comprising a block

server configured to receive a confirmation associated with  chain , each block being comprised of at least a block header

the primary account number from  the computing  system ,  and one or more transaction values , wherein each transaction
wherein the transmitting device of the processing server is  value includes at least a transaction address , a transaction

further  configured  to  electronically  transmit a  payment  reference , and a transaction signature , the querying module

request to  the computing  system , wherein the payment  of the processing server is further configured to execute a

request includes at least a reference value associated with a  query on the received blockchain data to identify a specific
payment transaction , the receiving device of the processing  transaction value where the included transaction address

server is further configured to  receive an acceptance request  corresponds to the acceptance address , and the verification

from  the computing system , wherein the acceptance request  module of the processing server is  configured to verify the

includes at least the reference value , an acceptance address ,  specific transaction value based on at least a correspondence
one or more fee values , and a first digital signature generated between the included transaction reference and the reference
by a third party , the signing module of the processing server  value .

is configured to  generate a  second digital signature using at
least the acceptance address , and the transmitting device of  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING

the processing server is configured to electronically transmit  FIGURES

at least the second digital signature to the computing system .  [ 0012 ] .  The scope of the present disclosure is best under

[ 0010 ]  Another system  for processing of a cryptographi  stood from  the following detailed description of exemplary

cally auditable transaction includes : a receiving device of a  embodiments when read in conjunction with the accompa
processing server configured to receive a payment request  nying drawings . Included in the drawings are the following
from  a first computing system , wherein the payment request  figures :
includes at least a reference value associated with a payment  [ 0013  ]  FIG . 1 is a block  diagram  illustrating a high level
transaction ; a  signing module of the processing  server  system  architecture for the processing of a cryptographically


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019

auditable transaction involving the use of a moderating  account , savings account , credit account  , virtual payment
system  and blockchain  in  accordance with  exemplary  account , etc . A  transaction account may be associated with
embodiments .  a  consumer , which may be any suitable type of entity

[ 0014 ]  FIG . 2 is a block diagram illustrating  a processing  associated with  a payment account , which may include a
server for use in  the system  of FIG . 1 for the processing of  person , family , company , corporation , governmental entity ,
cryptographically auditable transactions in accordance with  etc . In some instances , a transaction account may be virtual ,
exemplary embodiments .  such as those accounts operated by PayPal® , etc .

[ 0015 ]  FIG . 3 is a flow  diagram  illustrating a process for  0022 ]  Issuer —  An entity that establishes  ( e . g . , opens ) a
the identification and verification of an  account to be used in  letter or line of credit in favor of a beneficiary , and honors

a  cryptographically auditable transaction in  the system  of  drafts drawn by the beneficiary against the amount specified
FIG . 1 in  accordance  with exemplary embodiments .  in  the letter or line of credit . In many instances , the issuer
00161 FIGS  . 4A and 4B are a flow  diagram illustrating a  may be a  bank or other financial institution authorized to
process for the processing of a  cryptographically auditable  open lines of credit . In some instances , any entity that may
transaction in  the system  of FIG . 1 in  accordance  with  extend a line of credit to a beneficiary may be considered an
exemplary embodiments .  issuer  .  The line of credit opened by the issuer may be

[ 0017 ]  FIGS  . 5 - 7  are  flow  charts illustrating  exemplary  represented in  the form  of a payment  account  , and may be
methods for processing cryptographically auditable transac  drawn on by the beneficiary via the use of a payment card .
tions in  accordance with  exemplary embodiments .  An issuer may also  offer additional  types  of payment

[ 0018 ]  FIG . 8  is a block diagram  illustrating a  computer  accounts to consumers as will be apparent to persons having
system  architecture in accordance with exemplary embodi  skill in  the relevant art , such as debit accounts , prepaid
ments  .  accounts ,  electronic wallet  accounts ,  savings accounts ,

[ 0019 ]  Further areas of applicability of the present disclo  checking accounts , etc . , and may provide consumers with
sure will become apparent from  the detailed  description  physical or non - physical means for accessing and / or utiliz
provided hereinafter .  It  should  be  understood  that the  ing such  an  account  , such as debit cards  , prepaid cards  ,
detailed description of exemplary embodiments are intended  automated teller machine cards , electronic wallets , checks  ,
for illustration purposes only and are , therefore , not intended  etc .

to necessarily limit the scope of the disclosure .  [ 0023 ]  Acquirer - An entity  that may process payment
card transactions on behalf of a merchant . The acquirer may
DETAILED DESCRIPTION  be a bank or other financial institution authorized to process
payment card transactions on a merchant ' s behalf . In many
Glossary of Terms  instances , the acquirer may open a line of credit with the
merchant acting as a beneficiary . The acquirer may exchange
[ 0020 ]  Blockchain -  A  public ledger of all transactions of  funds with an issuer in  instances where a  consumer , which
a  blockchain - based  currency .  One  or  more  computing  may be a beneficiary to a line of credit offered by the issuer , devices may comprise a blockchain network , which may be
configured to  process and record transactions as part of a  transacts via a payment card with a merchant that is repre
sented by the acquirer . block in  the blockchain . Once a  block  is  completed  , the
block is  added to the blockchain  and the transaction record  System  for the Processing of Cryptographically Auditable thereby updated . In many instances , the blockchain may be  Transactions
a ledger of transactions in  chronological order , or may be
presented in  any other order that may be suitable for use by  [ 0024 ]  FIG . 1 illustrates a system  100 for the processing of
the blockchain network . In  some configurations , transac  electronic transactions with complete cryptographic audit
tions recorded in  the blockchain may include a destination  ability between two transacting entities via the use of a
address and a  currency amount ,  such  that the blockchain  moderating entity and blockchain .
records how much currency  is  attributable  to  a  specific  [ 0025 ]  The system  100 may involve an electronic  trans
address . In some instances , the transactions are financial and  action to be conducted between a purchasing entity 102 and
others not financial , or might include additional or different  a supplying entity 104 . The supplying entity 104 may supply
information , such as a  source address , timestamp , etc . In  goods or services to the purchasing entity 102 , for which the
some embodiments , a blockchain may also or alternatively  purchasing entity  102 makes a payment . The purchasing
include nearly any type of data as a  form  of transaction that  entity  102 may interact with  a  sending  computing system

is or needs to be placed in  a  distributed  database that  106  to make a payment to  the supplying entity  104 in  an
maintains a continuously growing list of data records hard  amount agreed upon by the two entities  .  The sending com
ened against tampering and revision , even by its operators ,  puting system  106 , discussed in more detail below , may be
and may be confirmed and validated by the blockchain  a computing system  associated with a transaction account
network through proof of work and / or any other suitable  issued to  the purchasing  entity  102  that is  specifically
verification techniques associated therewith . In some cases ,  configured as discussed herein to initiate cryptographically
data regarding a  given transaction may  further include  auditable transactions .  In  some embodiments , the sending
additional data that is not directly  part of the transaction  computing system  106 may be a part of an issuing financial
appended to transaction data . In  some instances , the inclu  institution , such as an issuing bank , that issues a transaction
sion of such  data in  a  blockchain may constitute a  transac  account to the purchasing entity  102  for use in  funding
tion . In  such  instances , a blockchain may not be directly  electronic transactions .
associated with a specific digital , virtual , fiat , or other type [ 0026 ]  The sending computing system  106 may receive
of currency .  payment data  for use in  making  a  payment as part of the
10021 ]  Transaction Account —  A  financial  account that  electronic transaction involving the purchasing entity  102
may be used  to  fund a transaction  , such as a checking  and supplying entity  104 . The payment data may include at


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019

least a  payment amount and a  primary  account number  receipt of funds in a payment transaction . If there is no such
associated with a transaction account ( e . g . , a credit , debit or transaction account or the transaction account is not eligible ,
other payment card number  , demand deposit number  , or  the receiving computing system  108 may notify the sending
other form  of account number issued to the supplying entity  computing system  106 accordingly , which may relay the
104 ) to which the payment is being made  . In some cases , the message to  the purchasing entity  102 and the transaction
payment data may also include an account number associ stopped . The purchasing entity 102 may then proceed to get
ated with the account issued to the purchasing entity  102 ,  a new account number  from  the supplying  entity  104 or
from which payment is to be debited . In some embodiments ,  re - attempt the transaction using the original primary account
the sending computing system  106 may receive the payment  number  , such  as to  correct a  typographical  error in  the
data in a transaction message that is electronically transmit  account number . If the transaction account exists and  is
ted to the sending computing system  106 , such as by the  valid , the receiving computing system  108 may notify the
purchasing entity 102 or via another entity or system , such  sending computing system  106  accordingly  , which may
as via a  point of sale device . The transaction message may  initiate  the processing of the cryptographically auditable
be a  specially  formatted data message that is  formatted  transaction .
pursuant to one or more standards governing the exchange  [ 0030 ]  The sending computing system  106 may first gen
of financial transaction messages , such as the International  erate a  payment request for the transaction .  The payment
Organization of Standardization ' s  ISO  8583 or ISO  20022  request may be a request generated by the sending comput
standards , where the payment data may be included in  data  ing system  106  to indicate  that payment , of the payment
elements stored therein .  amount  , is to be made to the transaction account associated
[ 0027 ]  Prior to  initiating the process for payment to the  with the primary account number . The payment request may
supplying entity  104 , the sending computing system 106  include at least the payment data  for the payment transac
may contact a receiving computing system 108 to verify the  tion . In  one embodiment , the payment data may be format

eligibility of the transaction account provided thereto  for  ted as a single reference value that is stored in the payment
payment . The receiving computing system  108 , discussed in  request  . In  such  embodiments , the sending computing sys
more detail below , may be a part of an acquiring financial  tem  106 may generate a reference value of the payment data ,

institution , such as an acquiring bank , that issues the trans  such as via the application  of a  hashing algorithm to  the
action account associated with the primary account number  payment data or use of abstract syntax notation one ( ASN .

to the supplying entity 104 for the receipt of funds as part of 1 ) . The sending computing system  106 may then forward the
the electronic transaction . The sending computing system  payment request ,  including the reference value , to  the
106 may establish a communication channel with the receiv  receiving computing system  108 using the established com
ing computing system  108 using any suitable communica  munication channel .  In  some embodiments , the sending

tion network and method . In  some embodiments , the send  computing system 106 may also include a unique identifier
ing computing system  106 may possess communication data  in  the payment  request , which may be included in  all
for contacting the receiving computing system 108 , which  communications between the sending computing system
may be used in  establishing the communication channel . For  106 and receiving computing system  108 associated with the
instance , the sending computing system  106 may identify  transaction for identification thereof  .
the receiving computing system 108 based on the primary  [ 0031 ]  The receiving computing system  108 may receive
account number ( e . g . , using an entity identification number  the payment request and may verify  the reference  value
included therein or via a lookup table ) and identify com  included therein .  Verification of the reference value may
munication data associated therewith .  include the generation of a reference value by the receiving

[ 0028 ]  In other embodiments , a moderating computing  computing system  108 using payment data for the expected
system  110 may be used for identification of the receiving  transaction ( e . g . , the same primary account number and
computing system  108 . The moderating computing system  payment amount as supplied by the supplying entity  104
110 , discussed in more detail below , may be a system  of a  based on the agreement with the purchasing entity 102 for
third  party  entity  configured  to  act  as  a  moderator  for  the transaction ) , and comparison of the generated reference
transactions involving the sending computing system  106  value to the reference value included in the payment request .
and receiving computing system  108 . In such embodiments ,  If the verification fails , the receiving computing system  108
the sending computing system  106 may provide the primary  may notify the sending computing system  106 accordingly ,
account number or data associated therewith ( e . g . , an entity  and the transaction aborted .  If  the verification succeeds ,
identification number ,  issuer identification number , bank  then , in some embodiments , the receiving computing system
identification number  , etc . ) to the moderating computing  108 may provide a  notification to the sending computing
system  110 .  The moderating computing system 110 may  system  106 accordingly  , which may include the reference
identify the receiving computing system  108  associated  value generated by the receiving computing system  108 .
therewith , such as  via  a  lookup table , and  provide  the  [ 0032  ]  Upon  successful verification of  the  payment
sending computing system 106 with communication data for  request  , the receiving computing system  108 may notify the
establishing the communication channel with the receiving  moderating computing system  110 of the transaction . The
computing system  108 .  notification may be comprised of the payment request as

[ 0029 ]  Once the communication channel is established ,  received from  the sending computing system  106 and a
the sending computing system  106 may electronically trans  digital signature generated by the receiving computing sys
mit the primary account number supplied in  the payment  tem  108 . The digital signature may be generated via any
data to the receiving computing system  108 . The receiving  suitable cryptographic algorithm , and may be generated via
computing system  108 may then  identify  if  there is  a  the use of  a  private  key associated with  the receiving
transaction account associated with  that primary account  computing system  108 , which may be part of a  crypto
number  , and if the transaction account is  eligible for the  graphic key pair , where the moderating computing system


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019

110 may possess the corresponding  public key . In  one  verification and the one or more fee values  . For example , the
embodiment , the digital signature may be generated via the  sending computing system  106 may decline the transaction
signing of the payment request by the receiving computing  due to  excess fees being charged , such as may exceed a
system  108 using the private key .  pre - established agreement between the moderating comput

[ 0033  ]  The moderating computing system  110  may  ing system  110 ( e . g . , during a  registration process ) and / or
receive the signed payment request . In  some embodiments ,  the receiving computing system 108 , and / or between the
the moderating computing system 110 may be configured to  purchasing entity 102 and supplying entity 104 .
verify the digital signature on the payment request . In such  [ 0037 ]  If the sending computing system  106 agrees to the
embodiments , the digital signature may be verified via use  acceptance request  , the sending computing system 106 may
of the public key that corresponds to  the private key used to  return an  indication of agreement thereof to  the receiving
generate the digital signature , which may be verified using  computing system 108 .  The indication may include at least
any suitable algorithm associated therewith , which may vary  a  digital signature generated by the sending computing
based on algorithm used to  generate the signature , the type  system  106 , such as via  the use of a private key of a
of public key used , and the algorithm used to  generate the  cryptographic key pair associated with the sending comput
key pair . If the verification fails , the moderating computing  ing system  106 . The digital signature may be generated on
system  110 may notify the receiving computing system  108  at least the transaction reference value and / or acceptance
and halt the processing of the transaction .  address , but may also , or alternatively , be generated on the

[ 0034 ]  If the verification succeeds , then the moderating  one or more fee values to  directly acknowledge agreement
computing system  110 may store the signed payment request  to  pay the indicated  fees . Such data may be included in  a
and may identify one or more fee values for fees to be paid  message that is  digitally  signed and then  electronically

( e . g . , by the receiving computing system  108 and / or sending  transmitted to the receiving computing system  108 using the
computing system  106 ) for processing and settlement of the  established communication channel  .
transaction . The moderating computing system  110 may also  [ 0038 ]  The receiving computing system  108 may receive
identify an  acceptance  address for the transaction .  The  the signed message from  the sending computing system  106 ,
acceptance address may be a unique value associated with  which may indicate that the sending computing system 106
the transaction , where the acceptance address may be used  agrees to make payment for the payment amount and fee
by each of the involved systems for identification of com  value ( s ) to the receiving computing system  108 . The receiv
munications related to  the transaction , which may also be  ing computing system  108 may then submit a transaction
used in  the auditing thereof  , as discussed in more detail  value to  a blockchain network 112 for inclusion in  a block
below . The moderating computing system 110 may include  chain  for confirmation of the transaction . The blockchain
the identified fee values and acceptance address in  a mes  network 112 may be comprised of a plurality of nodes 114 ,
sage to be returned to the receiving computing system  108 .  where the nodes 114 are each configured to  generate new
The moderating computing system 110 may be configured to  blocks for addition to  the blockchain that are verified by
digitally sign  the message , where the digital signature may  other nodes 114 using traditional methods and systems that
be generated using a private key of a cryptographic key pair  will be apparent to  persons having skill in the relevant art .
associated with the moderating computing system  110 .  In some embodiments , the sending computing system  106 ,

[ 0035 ]  The receiving computing system  108 may receive  receiving computing system  108 , and / or moderating com
the message from  the moderating computing system  110 ,  puting system  110 may be a node 114 .
including the one or more fee values , acceptance address ,  100391  .  The transaction value submitted to a  node 114 in
and digital signature . In some embodiments , the receiving  the blockchain network 112 may include at least the refer
computing system 108 may verify the digital signature , such  ence value for the transaction , the acceptance address , and
as by using a public key corresponding to  the private key  the sending computing system ' s digital signature . The trans
used  by the moderating  computing system  110  ( e . g . ,  action value may be included in a set of transaction values
received by the receiving computing system  108 as part of  that are  all  included  in  a  new  block  that is  generated  ,
a registration process with the moderating computing system  verified , and added to  the blockchain . The blockchain may
110 ) .  The receiving computing system 108 may then gen  be comprised of a  plurality of blocks  , where each block
erate an acceptance request . The acceptance request may be  includes a block header and a set of transaction values . The
submitted to  the sending computing system  106  via  the  block header may include a timestamp , a reference to a prior
established communication channel and include at least the  block ,  and a  reference  to  the  set of transaction  values
reference value for the transaction , the acceptance address ,  included in the respective block . In  an exemplary embodi
the one or more fee values , and the moderating computing  ment  , the reference to the prior block may refer to the block
system ' s digital signature . In  some instances , the receiving  most recently added to  the block prior to  that respective
computing system  108 may add one or more additional fee  block ( e . g . , identified via the timestamp included in its block
values , such as for payment of fees to  the receiving com  header ) , and may be a hash value generated via the hashing
puting system  108 as part of the processing of the payment  of the block header in  that most recently added block . The
transaction .  reference to  the set of transaction values included in  a block

[ 0036 ]  The sending computing system  106 may receive  may similarly be generated via  the hashing of the  set of
the acceptance request and may verify  the data included  transaction values included in  that block . In  some cases , the
therein . For instance , the sending computing system  106  reference may be the root of Merkle tree generated on the set may verify the accuracy of the transaction reference value  of transaction values using one or more suitable hashing
and verify the moderating computing system ' s digital sig -  algorithms . The inclusion of the references in  a block header
nature , as discussed above . The sending computing system  may ensure immutability and cryptographic auditability of
106 may then determine if the acceptance request should be  the blockchain ;  a  modified  transaction value would be
accepted or denied , such as based on  the result  of the  immediately identified due to  its  resulting  in  an incorrect


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019

reference for that block header , which would further result  cryptographic auditability to  entities  using the methods

in  an  incorrect  reference  in  the block  header  of every  discussed herein , while maintaining complete privacy of
subsequent block added to the blockchain . Furthermore , the  transactions in  which an entity is involved  .
propagation of the blockchain across a plurality of nodes
further prohibits the tampering of transaction values .  Processing Server

[ 0040 ]  Once the transaction value for the transaction has  [ 0044 ]  FIG . 2 illustrates an  embodiment of a processing been added to the blockchain , the sending computing system  server 200 in  the system  100 . It will be apparent to persons 106 , receiving computing system  108 , and moderating com  having skill in  the relevant art that the embodiment of the puting system 110 may each be able to verify the transaction  processing server 200 illustrated in  FIG . 2 is provided  as value by verification of the transaction reference value and  illustration only and may not be exhaustive to  all possible sending computing system ' s  digital signature to  ensure  configurations of the processing server 200 suitable  for
authenticity and accuracy of the transaction value . Once  performing the functions as discussed herein . For example ,
verified , the sending computing system  106 may debit the  the computer system  800 illustrated  in  FIG . 8 and discussed
transaction account issued to  the purchasing entity  102 and
in more detail below may be a suitable configuration of the used for payment , and the receiving computing system  108  processing server 200 . The processing server 200 may be may credit the transaction account issued to the supplying  part of or may comprise the sending computing system  106 ,
entity 104 and associated with the primary account number  .  receiving computing system  108 , and / or the moderating
[ 0041  ]  Following processing of the transaction , settlement  computing system  110 . Accordingly , functions performed by may be performed between the sending computing system  each of the sending computing system  106 , receiving com
106 and the receiving computing system 108 . In some cases ,  puting system  108 , and moderating computing system  110
net settlement may be performed , where the moderating  may be performed by components of the processing server
computing system 110 may make an accounting of payments  200 , as discussed below , where each system may include or
between all sending computing systems 106 and receiving  be comprised of a processing server 200 for the performance
computing systems 108 registered therewith over a period of  of the functions associated therewith .
time ( e . g . , daily ) and may initiate settlement of net positions  [ 0045 ]  .  The processing server 200 may include a receiving
once the period expires , where each  system  may make  device 202 . The receiving device 202 may be configured to payment to  or receive payment from  the moderating entity  receive data over one or more networks via one or more

in  accordance with their net positions . Methods for account  network protocols . In  some instances , the receiving device
ing of transactions over time and net settlement will be  202 may be configured to  receive data  from  purchasing
apparent to  persons having skill in the relevant art .  entities 102 ,  supplying entities  104 , sending computing
[ 0042 ]  In some embodiments , the moderating computing  systems 106 , receiving computing systems 108 , moderating
system  110 may be configured to verify its involvement in  computing systems 110 , nodes 114 , and other systems and
the processed transaction and inclusion thereof in settlement  entities via one or more communication methods , such as
to be performed .  In  such  embodiments  ,  the moderating  radio  frequency , local area networks , wireless area  net
computing system  110 may be  configured  to  generate  a  works  ,  cellular communication networks ,  Bluetooth ,  the
settlement acceptance .  The settlement  acceptance may  Internet ,  etc .  In  some embodiments  , the receiving device
include at least the transaction reference value , the accep  202 may be comprised of multiple devices , such as different
tance  address ,  and  a  digital  signature generated by the  receiving devices for receiving data over different networks ,
moderating computing system  110 , which may be generated  such as a  first receiving device for receiving data over a local
on the transaction reference value and acceptance address , or  area network and a second receiving device for receiving may be the digital signature previously generated by the  data via the Internet . The receiving device 202 may receive
moderating computing system  110 .  The settlement accep  electronically transmitted data  signals , where data may be
tance may be submitted to  a  node 114  in  the blockchain  superimposed or otherwise encoded on the data signal and
network 112 for addition thereto , which may then be verified decoded , parsed , read , or otherwise obtained via receipt of
by the sending computing system  106 and receiving com  the  data  signal by the receiving  device  202 . In  some
puting system 108 for confirmation that settlement will be  instances , the receiving device 202 may include a parsing
performed by the moderating computing system  110 ( e . g . , as module for parsing the received data signal to obtain the data
opposed to the sending computing system 106 and receiving  superimposed thereon . For example , the receiving device
computing system  108  performing settlement indepen  202 may include a parser program configured to receive and
dently , on a per - transaction basis ) .  transform the received data signal into usable input for the

[ 0043 ]  The methods and systems discussed herein may  functions performed by the processing device to carry out
enable two entities to  engage in  a payment transaction for  the methods and systems described herein .
which there is complete cryptographic auditability due to the  [ 0046 ]  The receiving device  202 may be configured to
use of digital signatures , the moderating computing system  receive data signals  superimposed  or otherwise encoded
110 , and the blockchain . The blockchain may provide each  with payment data , which may be transaction messages
entity with the ability to verify transactions , where such data  formatted pursuant to one or more standards , such as the ISO

is also immutable to serve as a permanent record of trans  8583 or ISO  20022 standards , such as may be submitted by
actions between each  entity . In  addition , as the blockchain  purchasing entities 102 and / or supplying entities 104 .  The
only includes references to transactions , the transaction data  receiving device 202 may also be configured to receive data
may remain anonymous such that only parties involved in  signals superimposed or otherwise encoded with account
any transaction may be able to verify such data , and such  verification requests and confirmations , such  as may be
that no entity may be able to identify entities involved in any electronically transmitted by sending computing systems
transaction to which they are not a party . Thus , the block -  106 , receiving computing systems 108 , or moderating com
chain serves as an immutable record that provides complete  puting systems 110 . The receiving device 202 may be further


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019

configured to receive data signals electronically transmitted  the  sending computing system  106 , which may include
by sending computing systems 106 , which may be super  balance and credit data , and may also store account profiles
imposed or otherwise encoded with  payment requests and  208 for transaction accounts issued to receiving computing
acceptance messages . The receiving device 202 may also be  systems 108 , which may include communication data for
configured to  receive data signals electronically transmitted  establishing communication with the associated receiving
by receiving computing systems 108 , which may be super computing system 108 .
imposed or otherwise encoded with payment confirmations ,  [ 0049 ]  The processing server 200 may also include or be payment requests , and acceptance messages . The receiving  otherwise interfaced with one or more input devices 210 .
device 202 may also be configured to  receive data signals  The input devices 210 may be internal to the processing
electronically transmitted by moderating computing systems  server 200 or  external to  the processing server 200 and
110 , which may be superimposed or otherwise encoded with  connected thereto via one or more connections ( e . g . , wired
responses to payment requests and data messages related to  or wireless ) for the transmission of data to and / or from . The
settlement of transactions . Receiving devices 202 may also  input devices 210 may be configured to receive input from
be configured to receive data signals electronically  trans  a user of the processing server 200 , which may be provided
mitted by nodes 114 , which may be superimposed or oth  to  another module or engine of the processing server 200
erwise encoded with blockchain data ,  such as  for use  in  ( e . g . ,  via  the communication module 204 ) for processing
verification and  auditing of transactions and  settlement  accordingly . Input devices 210 may include any type of
acceptances .  input device suitable for receiving input for the performing

[ 0047 ]  .  The processing server 200 may also  include  a  of the  functions discussed herein ,  such  as  a  keyboard  ,
communication module 204 .  The communication module  mouse  , click wheel  , scroll wheel  , microphone , touch screen ,
204 may be configured to  transmit data between modules ,  track pad , camera , optical imager  , etc . The input device 210
engines , databases , memories , and other components of the  may be configured to , for example  , receive input of payment
processing server 200 for use in  performing  the functions  data , such as primary account numbers , payment amounts ,
discussed herein . The communication module 204 may be  fee values , other account numbers , etc . , which may be used
comprised of one or more communication types and utilize  in performing the functions of the processing server 200 as
various communication methods for communications within  discussed herein .

a computing device . For example , the communication mod  10050 .  The processing server 200 may include a querying
ule 204 may be comprised of a bus  , contact pin connectors ,  module 216 . The querying module 216 may be configured to
wires , etc . In some embodiments , the communication mod  execute queries on databases to  identify information . The
ule 204 may also  be configured to  communicate between  querying module 216 may receive one or more data values
internal components of the processing server 200 and exter  or query strings , and may execute a  query  string based
nal components of the  processing server 200 ,  such  as  thereon on an  indicated  database ,  such  as  the account
externally connected databases ,  display  devices  ,  input  database 206 ,  to  identify  information stored therein .  The
devices , etc . The processing server 200 may also include a  querying module 216 may then output the identified infor
processing device . The processing device may be configured mation to an appropriate engine or module of the processing

to  perform  the functions of the  processing  server  200  server 200 as necessary . The querying module 216 may  , for
discussed herein as will be apparent to persons having skill  example , execute a query on the account database to identify

in  the relevant art . In  some embodiments , the processing  an  account profile  208  for use  in  verifying  transaction
device may include and / or be comprised of a  plurality of  account eligibility , identifying a receiving computing system
engines and / or modules specially configured to perform one  108 , identifying communication data , etc .
or more functions of the processing device , such  as a  [ 0051 ]  The processing server 200 may also  include a
querying module 216 , signing module 218 , generation mod  verification module 214 . The verification module 214 may
ule 220 , verification module 214 , etc . As used herein , the be configured to perform  data verifications for the process
term  “ module ” may be software or hardware particularly  ing server 200 in  conjunction with the functions discussed
programmed to  receive  an  input ,  perform  one or more  herein . The verification module 214 may receive instruc
processes using the input , and provides an output . The input , tions as input  , may verify  data  in  accordance  with  the
output  , and processes performed by various modules will be  instructions , and may output results of the verifications to
apparent to  one skilled in  the art based upon the present  other modules or engines of the processing server 200  . In
disclosure .  some cases , the input may include data to be used in the

[ 0048  ]  The processing server 200 may include an account  verifications .  In  other cases , the verification module 214
database 206 . The account database 206 may be configured  may be configured to  identify  ( e . g . ,  via  instructing of the

to store a plurality of account profiles 208 using a suitable  querying module 216 ) data to be used in the verifications .
data storage format and schema  . The account database 206  The verification module 214 may be configured to ,  for
may be a relational database that utilizes structured query  example , verify digital signatures , transaction reference val
language for the storage ,  identification , modifying , updat  ues  ,  fee  values  ,  settlement acceptances ,  and acceptance

ing , accessing , etc . of structured data sets stored  therein .  addresses during the functions of the sending computing
Each  account profile 208  may be a  structured  data  set  system  106 , receiving computing system  108 , and moder

configured to  store data related to  one or more transaction  ating computing system  110 as discussed herein .
accounts , where data included therein may be based on the  [ 0052  ]  The processing server 200 may also  include  a
functions performed by the processing server 200 . Account  signing module 218 .  The signing module  218 may be
profiles 208 may include associated account numbers , bal  configured to  generate digital signatures for use in perform
ance and  credit information ,  communication information ,  ing the  functions of the processing server 200 discussed
etc . For instance , the sending computing system  106 may  herein .  The signing module 218 may be configured  to
store account profiles 208 for transaction account issued by  receive data to be signed as input  , may generate a digital


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019

signature for the data using a  suitable algorithm or algo  transmit data signals from receiving computing systems 108 ,
rithms  , and may output the digital signature to other modules  which may be superimposed or otherwise encoded with
or engines of the processing server 200 . In  some embodi  payment confirmations , payment requests , and acceptance
ments , the signing module 218 may receive algorithms  messages . The transmitting device 222 may also be config
and  / or cryptographic keys to use in  the generation of digital  ured to electronically transmit data signals from moderating
signatures as input  .  In  other  embodiments  , the  signing  computing systems 110 , which may be superimposed or
module 218 may be configured to identify such data during  otherwise encoded with responses to payment requests and
the process of generating a  digital  signature ,  such as by  data messages related to  settlement of transactions .  Trans
instructing the querying module 216 to execute queries to  mitting devices 222 may also be configured to electronically
identify data stored in the processing server 200 . The signing transmit data signals to nodes 114 , which may be superim
module 218 may be configured to generate digital signatures  posed or otherwise encoded with transaction values and / or
on payment requests , acceptance requests , and other data ,  settlement acceptance messages for addition to the block
such as for indication of acceptance of payment amounts and  chain associated therewith .
fees  for cryptographically  auditable transactions as  dis  [ 0056 ]  The processing server  200 may also  include a
cussed herein .  memory 224 . The memory 224 may be configured to store

[ 0053  ]  The processing server 200 may also  include  a  data for use by the processing server 200 in performing the

generation module 220 . The generation module 220 may be  functions discussed herein , such as public and private keys  ,
configured to  generate data for use in  performing the func  symmetric keys , etc . The memory 224 may be configured to

tions of the processing server 200 as discussed herein . The  store  data  using  suitable  data  formatting methods and
generation module 220 may receive an instruction as input  ,  schema and may be any suitable type of memory , such as
may generate data as instructed , and may output the gener  read - only  memory ,  random access memory  ,  etc .  The

ated data to  another module or engine of the processing  memory 224 may include , for example , encryption keys and

server 200 . For example , the generation module 220 may be  algorithms ,  communication protocols and  standards ,  data
configured to generate payment requests , unique identifiers ,  formatting standards and protocols , program code for mod

transaction reference values , acceptance requests , accep  ules and application programs of the processing device , and

tance addresses ,  payment acceptances , settlement accep  other data that may be suitable for use by the processing

tances , and other data and data messages used in  performing  server 200 in the performance of the functions disclosed

the functions of the sending computing system  106 , receiv  herein as will be apparent to  persons having skill in  the
ing computing system  108 , and moderating computing sys  relevant art . In some embodiments , the memory 224 may be

tem  110 as discussed herein .  comprised of or may otherwise include a relational database

[ 0054 ]  The processing server 200 may also  include a  that utilizes structured query language for the storage , iden

transmitting device 222  . The transmitting device 222 may be tification , modifying , updating , accessing , etc . of structured
data sets stored therein . The memory 224 may be configured configured to transmit data over one or more networks via
one or more network protocols . In  some instances , the  to  store ,  for example , blockchain data , lookup tables  for

transmitting device 222 may be configured to  transmit data  receiving computing systems 108 and communication data ,

to  purchasing entities 102  , supplying entities 104 , sending  encryption algorithms for  generating  cryptographic key
computing systems 106 , receiving computing systems 108 ,  pairs or digital signatures , private and public keys , etc .
moderating computing systems 110 , nodes 114 , and other

entities via one or more communication methods , local area  Process for Identification and Confirmation of a Transaction

networks , wireless area networks , cellular communication ,  Account

Bluetooth ,  radio  frequency  ,  the  Internet ,  etc .  In  some  [ 0057  ]  FIG . 3 illustrates a process in  the system  100 for
embodiments ,  the transmitting device 222 may be  com  the identification of a transaction account for use in receiv
prised of multiple devices , such as different transmitting  ing funds in the cryptographically auditable transaction and
devices for transmitting data over different networks , such as  confirmation of eligibility thereof  .

a  first transmitting device for transmitting data over a local  10058 ]  In  step  302 , the receiving  device 202 and / or input
area network and a second transmitting device for transmit  device 210 of the  sending computing system  106  may
ting data via the Internet . The transmitting device 222 may  receive payment data for a proposed transaction , where the
electronically transmit data signals that have data superim  payment data includes at least a primary account number to
posed that may be parsed by a receiving computing device .  which payment is  to be made  . In  step  304 , the querying
In  some instances , the transmitting device 222 may include  module 216 of the sending computing system  106 may
one or more modules for superimposing , encoding , or oth  execute a query on an account database 206 of the sending
erwise formatting data into data signals suitable for trans  computing system  106 or other storage to identify  a receiv
mission .  ing entity associated with the primary account number  . The
[ 0055 ]  The transmitting device 222 may be configured to  sending computing system 106 may be able to successfully

electronically transmit data signals superimposed or other  identify the entity , but may not have a  current routing
wise encoded with account verification requests and confir  number associated with the receiving computing system 108
mations , such as may be electronically transmitted by send  of the entity for use in establishing communication there
ing computing systems 106 , receiving computing systems  with .
108 , or moderating computing systems 110 . The transmit  [ 0059 ]  In  step  306 , the transmitting  device 222 of the
ting device 222 may be further configured to electronically  sending computing system 106 may electronically transmit
transmit data signals from  sending computing systems 106 ,  a routing number request to  the moderating  computing
which may be superimposed or otherwise encoded with  system 110 .  The routing number request may include the
payment requests and acceptance messages . The transmit -  primary account number and / or identification of the receiv
ting device 222 may also be configured  to  electronically  ing entity . In  step  308 , the receiving  device  202 of the


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019

moderating computing system  110 may receive the routing  loyalty data ,  geographic location ,  etc .  In  step  404 ,  the
number request . In  step 310 , the querying module 216 of the generation module 220 of the sending computing system
moderating computing system  110 may execute a  query on  106 may generate a payment request , which may include at
an account database 206 or other storage of the moderating  least the generated reference value .
computing system  110 to identify  a current routing number  [ 0064 ]  In  step 406 , the transmitting device 222 of the
for the receiving entity . In step 312 , the transmitting device  sending computing system  106 may electronically transmit
222 of the moderating computing system  110 may electroni  the generated payment request to the receiving computing
cally transmit the routing number to the sending computing  system 108 using  a  communication  channel established
system  106 .  therewith .  In  step  408 ,  the receiving  device 202 of the

[ 0060 ]  In step 314 , the receiving device 202 of the sending  receiving computing system  108 may receive the payment
computing system  106 may receive the routing number  . In  request .  In  some embodiments ,  the receiving computing
step 316 , the transmitting device 222 of the sending com  system  108 may be configured to acknowledge receipt of the
puting system 106 may electronically transmit a request for  payment request  , by returning a response message to  the
account verification to the receiving computing system  108 .  sending computing system 106 .  In  step  410 ,  the signing
The request for account verification may include at least the  module 218 of the receiving computing system  108 may
primary account number supplied as part of the payment  generate a digital signature on the payment request using a
data , and may be submitted to  the receiving computing  private key associated with the receiving computing system
system 108 using the routing number received from  the  108 . In  step 412 , the transmitting device 222 of the receiving
moderating computing system  110 . In  some instances , the  computing system  108 may electronically  transmit the
sending computing system 106 may establish a direct com  signed payment request to the moderating computing system
munication channel with  the receiving computing system  110 .
108 using the routing number , through which the request for [ 0065 ]  In  step 414 , the receiving device 202 of the mod
account verification may be transmitted . In  step  318 , the  erating computing system  110 may receive the signed pay
receiving device 202 of the receiving computing system  108  ment request  . In  some embodiments , a verification module may receive the account verification request .  214 of the moderating computing system 110 may be used
[ 0061  ]  In step  320 , the receiving computing system  108  to  verify the digital signature on the payment request , such may determine if the transaction account associated with the  as using a public key associated with the receiving comput
primary account number is eligible for receipt of funds via  ing system 108 and corresponding to the private key used to
a  cryptographically  auditable transaction .  The querying  generate  the digital signature . In  step  416 , the querying module 216 of the receiving computing system  108 may  module 216 of the moderating computing system  110 may
execute a  query on  an account database 206  stored therein  identify one or more fee values for processing the transac
and identify an account profile 208 that includes the primary  tion , which may be based  on  the payment  data  for the
account number  . The verification module 214 of the receiv  transaction ,  entities involved in  the transaction , or  other
ing computing system 108 may verify that the transaction  criteria that will be apparent to  persons having skill in the
account related thereto is eligible for use in receiving funds .  relevant art . In  step 418 , the moderating computing system
In  step  322 , the transmitting device 222 of the receiving  110 may identify an acceptance address for unique associa
computing system  108 may electronically transmit a con  tion with  the transaction , such as may be identified via  a
firmation message to  the sending computing system  106 ,  query executed by the querying module 216 of the moder
which may be received by a receiving device 202 thereof , in  ating computing system  110 or generated by the generation
step  324 . The confirmation message may indicate that the  module 220 of the moderating computing system  110 .
transaction account associated with  the primary account  [ 0066 ]  In  step 420  , the signing module 218 of the mod number is eligible to  receive funds , such that the crypto  erating computing system  110 may generate a digital sig
graphically auditable transaction may proceed for process
ing .  nature , which may be generated on at least the identified fee
values  , and may be generated on a message that includes the

Processing of a Cryptographically Auditable Transaction  identified fee values , acceptance address , and transaction
reference value .  The digital signature may be generated

[ 0062 ]  FIGS  . 4A and 4B illustrate a process for the pro  using a private key associated with the moderating comput
cessing of a cryptographically auditable transaction involv  ing system  110 , such as may be queried  ( e . g . , by the
ing a moderating entity and the use of a blockchain in  the  moderating computing system ' s querying module 216 ) from

system  100 .  a memory 224 of the moderating computing system  110 . In

[ 0063  ]  In  step  402 , the generation  module 220 of the  step  422 , the transmitting device 222 of the moderating
sending computing system  106 may generate a  reference  computing system  110 may return transaction  data to the
value for a transaction to be processed . The reference value  receiving computing system  108 , which may be comprised
may be generated on payment data received for the trans  of at least the identified fee values , acceptance address , and
action , and may be generated via the application of one or  the generated digital signature .
more hashing algorithms to  the payment data , transforma  [ 0067  ]  In step 424 , the receiving device 202 of the receiv
tion of the payment data using standardized rules , or other  ing computing system  108 may receive the transaction data
suitable method .  The payment data may include at least a  from  the moderating computing system 110 . In  step 426 , the
primary account number to which payment is to be made  , a  transmitting device 222 of the receiving computing system
payment amount  , and any other data suitable for use in  the  108 may electronically transmit an acceptance request to the
processing and settlement of a  transaction ,  such  as an  sending computing system 106 . The acceptance request may
account number from  which payment is to be made  , trans  include at least the transaction reference value , the one or
action time and / or date , consumer data , product data , pur -  more fee values  , the acceptance address , and the moderating
chase order data ,  invoice data , offer  data , reward data ,  computing system ' s digital signature . In  some cases , the


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019
10

receiving computing system  108 may verify the moderating  processing server to a computing system  ( e . g . , the receiving
computing system ' s digital signature prior to transmission of  computing system  108 ) . In  step 506 , a confirmation associ
the acceptance request . In  step 428 , the receiving device 202  ated with the primary account number may be received by
of the sending computing system  106  may receive  the  a receiving device ( e . g . , the receiving device 202 ) of the
acceptance request . The sending computing system  106 may  processing server from  the computing system .

then ( e . g . , using the verification module 214 thereof ) verify  [ 0072 ]  In  step 508 , a payment request may be electroni
that the transaction should proceed , such as by confirming  cally transmitted by the transmitting device of the process
the data  included in the acceptance request ( e . g . , ensuring  ing server to  the computing system , wherein the payment
the transaction reference value is  correct ,  checking  for  request includes at least a reference value associated with a
excess or unknown fees , verifying the moderating comput  payment transaction . In  step 510 , an acceptance request may
ing system ' s digital signature , etc . ) .  be received from  the computing system by the receiving

[ 0068  ]  In  step 430 , signing module 218 of the sending  device of the processing server , wherein the acceptance
computing system  106 may generate  a  digital signature ,  request includes at least the reference value , an  acceptance
which may be generated on at least the identified fee values ,  address , one or more fee values , and a  first digital signature
and may be generated on the acceptance request  . The digital  generated by a third party ( e . g . , the moderating computing
signature may be generated using a private key associated  system  110 ) .
with the sending computing  system  106 , such as may be  [ 0073 ]  In step 512 , a second signature may be generated
queried ( e . g . , by the sending computing system ' s querying  by a signing module ( e . g . , the signing module 218 ) of the
module 216 ) from  a memory 224 of the sending computing  processing server using at least the acceptance address . In
system  106 . In step 432 , the transmitting device 222 of the  step 514 , at least the second  digital  signature  may be
sending computing system  106 may electronically transmit  electronically transmitted to the computing system  by the
an acceptance message to the receiving computing system  transmitting device of the processing server .
108 .  The acceptance message may  include  at  least  the  10074 ]  In one embodiment , the method 500 may further
acceptance address and the sending computing system ' s  include : receiving , by the receiving device of the processing
digital signature .  server  , a  transaction message associated with the payment

[ 0069 ]  In step 434 , the receiving device 202 of the receiv transaction , wherein the transaction message is formatted
ing  computing system 108 may receive the  acceptance  based on one or more standards  and includes at least a
message from  the sending computing system  106 . In step  plurality of data elements including at least a  first data
436 , the generation module 220 of the receiving computing  element configured to store the primary account number  ;
system  108 may generate a transaction value for the trans  and generating , by a hashing module ( e . g . , the generation
action .  The transaction value may be formatted in  compli  module 220 ) of the processing server , the reference value
ance with any rules or standards set forth by the blockchain  based on application of one or more hashing algorithms to
network 112 and may include at least the reference value for  the received transaction message . In some embodiments , the
the  transaction ,  the  acceptance  address ,  and  the  digital  method 500 may also  include receiving , by the receiving
signature generated by the sending computing system  106 .  device of the processing server , blockchain data from  a node
In  step 438 , the transmitting device 222 of the receiving  ( e . g . , a  node 114 ) associated with  a blockchain network
computing system  108 may electronically transmit the trans  ( e . g . , the blockchain network 112 ) , wherein the blockchain
action value to  a node 114 associated with the blockchain  data includes one or more blocks comprising a  blockchain ,
network 112 for addition thereto using standard methods and  each block being comprised of at least a block header and
systems  . Each of the sending computing system  106 , receiv  one or more transaction values , wherein each  transaction
ing computing system 108 , and moderating computing sys  value includes at least a  transaction address , a  transaction
tem  110 may then be free to identify the transaction value in  reference , and a  transaction signature ; executing , by a que
the blockchain  ( e . g . ,  via  the acceptance address and  / or  rying module ( e . g . , the querying module 216 ) of the pro
transaction reference value ) and verify the data included  cessing server , a query on the received blockchain data to
therein .  The sending computing system  106  and receiving  identify a  specific  transaction value where  the included
computing system 108 may settle their respective transac  transaction address corresponds to  the acceptance address ;
tion accounts accordingly , and the moderating computing  and verifying , by a verification module ( e . g . , the verification
system 110 may account for the transaction when perform  module 214 ) of the processing server , the specific transac
ing net settlement for all associated entities .  tion value based on at least a correspondence between the
included transaction reference and the reference value and a
First  Exemplary  Method  for  Processing  of  a  correspondence between the included transaction signature
Cryptographically Auditable Transaction  and the second digital signature .

[ 0070 ]  FIG . 5 illustrates a method 500 for the processing
of a  cryptographically auditable transaction including the  Second Exemplary Method  for  Processing  of  a

generation and submission of a  payment request from  an  Cryptographically Auditable Transaction

entity associated with a transaction account used for funding  [ 0075 ]  FIG . 6 illustrates a method 600 for the processing
of the transaction .  of a  cryptographically auditable transaction including the

[ 0071  ]  In step 502 , payment data may be received by an  receipt and processing of a payment request by an entity
input device ( e . g . , the input device 210 )  of a processing  associated with a transaction account used for the receipt of
server ( e . g . , a processing server 200 comprising the sending  funds in  the transaction .
computing system  106 ) , wherein the payment data includes  f0076 ]  In step 602  , a payment request may be received by
at least a primary account number . In step 504 , the primary a receiving device ( e . g . , the receiving device 202 ) of a
account number may be electronically transmitted by  a  processing server ( e . g . , a processing server 200 comprising
transmitting device ( e . g . , the transmitting device 222 ) of the  the receiving computing system  108 ) from  a first computing


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019

system  ( e . g . , the sending computing system  106 ) wherein  the processing server , an indication of successful verification
the payment request includes at least a  reference  value  to  the first computing system .

associated with a payment transaction . In step 604 , a  first
digital signature may be generated by a signing module ( e . g . , Third  Exemplary  Method  for  Processing  of  a
the signing module 218 ) of the processing server using at  Cryptographically Auditable Transaction
least the received payment request . In  step 606 , at least the

first  digital  signature  and the payment request may be  [ 0080  ]  FIG . 7 illustrates a method 700 for the processing

electronically transmitted by a transmitting device ( e . g . , the  of a cryptographically auditable transaction including the

transmitting device 222 ) of the processing server to a second  processing of data  associated therewith by a third  party ,
moderating entity . computing system  ( e . g . , the moderating computing system
[ 0081  ]  In step 702 , a payment request may be received by 110 ) .
a receiving device ( e . g . , the receiving device 202 ) of a
[ 0077 ]  In  step  608 ,  a  confirmation  message may be  processing server ( e . g . , a processing server 200 comprising
received from  the second computing system by the receiving  the moderating computing system 110 )  from  a  computing
device of the processing server , wherein the confirmation  system ( e . g . , the receiving computing system  108 ) , wherein
message includes at least one or more fee values , a  second  the payment request includes at least a  reference  value
digital signature , and an acceptance address . In step 610 , an  associated with  a payment transaction and a  first digital
acceptance request may be electronically transmitted to the  signature . In step 704 , a querying module ( e . g . , the querying
first computing system  by the transmitting  device of the  module 216 ) of the processing server may execute a  first
processing server , wherein the acceptance request includes  query to identify one or more feel values for the payment
at least the reference value , the one or more fee values , the  transaction and a  second query to  identify an acceptance
second digital signature , and the acceptance address .  address . In  step 706 , a second digital signature may be
10078 ]  In  step  612 ,  an  acceptance  message may be  generated by a  signing module ( e . g . , the signing module

received from  the first computing system  by the receiving  218 ) of the processing server .

device of the processing server , wherein the acceptance  10082 ]  In step 708 , at least the one or more fee values  , the
message includes at least a  third  digital signature . In  step  acceptance address , and the second digital signature may be
614 , a transaction value may be electronically transmitted by  electronically transmitted by a transmitting device ( e . g . , the

the transmitting device of the processing server to a node  transmitting device  222 )  of the processing server to  the

( e . g . , a node 114 ) associated with  a blockchain network  computing system . In step 710 , the receiving device of the

( e . g . , the blockchain network 112 ) , wherein the transaction processing server may receive blockchain data from  a node
value includes at least the reference value  , the acceptance  ( e . g . , a  node 114 ) associated with  a  blockchain  network

address , and the third digital signature .  ( e . g . , the blockchain network 112 ) , wherein the blockchain
data includes one or more blocks comprising a blockchain ,
[ 0079 ]  In one embodiment , the method 600 may further  each block being comprised of at least a block header and
include : receiving , by the receiving device of the processing one or more transaction values , wherein each  transaction
server , blockchain data from  a  node associated  with  the  value includes at least a transaction address , a transaction
blockchain network , wherein the blockchain data includes  reference , and a transaction signature .
one or more blocks comprising a blockchain , each block  10083 ]  In  step  712 ,  a  query may be  executed  on  the being comprised of at least a block header and one or more received blockchain data by the querying module of the
transaction values , wherein each transaction value includes  processing server to  identify  a  specific  transaction value
at least a transaction address , a transaction reference , and a  where the included transaction address corresponds to  the
transaction signature ; executing , by a querying module ( e . g . , acceptance address . In step 714 , the specific  transaction
the querying module 216 ) of the processing server , a query  value may be verified by a  verification module ( e . g . , the
on the received blockchain data to identify a specific trans  verification module 214 ) of the processing server based on
action value where the included transaction address corre  at least a  correspondence between the included transaction sponds to  the  acceptance  address ;  and  verifying ,  by a  reference and the reference value . In  one embodiment , the
verification module ( e . g . , the verification module 214 ) of the  method 700 may further include : generating , by a generation processing server , the specific transaction value based on at  module ( e . g . , the generation module 220 ) of the processing
least a  correspondence between the included transaction  server , an  acceptance entry , wherein the acceptance entry
reference and the reference value and a  correspondence  includes at least the acceptance address , the reference value , between the included transaction signature and the third  and the second digital signature ; and electronically trans
digital signature . In  some embodiments , the method 600  mitting , by the transmitting device of the processing server , may also  include : storing , in  an account database ( e . g . , the  the generated acceptance entry to a node associated with the account database 206 ) of the processing server , a plurality of  blockchain network .
account profiles ( e . g . , account profiles 208 ) , wherein each
account profile includes a  structured data set related  to  a  Computer System Architecture
transaction account including at least a primary account
number , receiving , by the receiving device of the processing  10084 ]  FIG . 8 illustrates  a computer system  800 in which
server , a  verification request from  the first computing  sys  embodiments of the present disclosure , or portions thereof  ,
tem , wherein  the verification  request includes at  least a  may be implemented as  computer - readable code .  For
specific account number  ; verifying , by the verification mod  example ,  the  sending computing system  106 ,  receiving

ule  of the  processing  server ,  an  account profile of the  computing system  108 , and moderating computing system
plurality of account profiles where the  included primary  110 of FIG . 1 may be implemented in  the computer system
account number corresponds to the specific account number  ;  800 using hardware ,  software ,  firmware ,  non - transitory
and electronically transmitting , by the transmitting device of  computer readable media having instructions stored thereon ,


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019

or a combination thereof and may be implemented in one or  known manner  . The removable storage unit 818 may include
more computer systems or other processing systems . Hard  a removable storage media that may be read by and written
ware  , software , or any combination thereof may embody  to by the removable storage drive 814 . For example , if the
modules and components used to implement the methods of  removable storage drive  814  is  a  floppy disk  drive  or
FIGS  . 3 , 4A , 4B , and 5 - 7 .  universal serial bus port  , the removable storage unit 818 may

[ 0085 ]  If programmable logic is used , such  logic may  be a  floppy disk or portable flash drive , respectively . In  one
execute on  a  commercially  available processing platform  embodiment , the removable storage unit 818 may be non
configured by executable software code to become a specific  transitory computer readable recording media .
purpose computer or a  special purpose device ( e . g . , pro  10090 ]  In some embodiments , the secondary memory 810
grammable logic  array ,  application - specific integrated cir  may include alternative means for allowing computer pro
cuit , etc . ) .  A  person having ordinary skill in  the art may  grams or other instructions to be loaded into  the computer
appreciate that embodiments of the disclosed subject matter  system  800 , for example , the removable storage unit 822 and
can be practiced with  various computer system configura  an interface 820 . Examples of such means may include a
tions , including multi - core multiprocessor systems , mini program cartridge and cartridge interface ( e . g . , as found in
computers , mainframe computers , computers linked or clus  video  game systems ) ,  a  removable memory chip  ( e . g . ,
tered with  distributed  functions ,  as well as pervasive or  EEPROM , PROM , etc . ) and associated socket , and other
miniature computers that may be embedded into  virtually  removable storage units 822 and interfaces 820 as will be
any device . For instance , at least one processor device and  apparent to persons having skill in  the relevant art .

a memory may be used to  implement the above described  [ 0091 ]  Data stored in the computer system  800 ( e . g . , in the
embodiments .  main memory 808 and / or the secondary memory 810 ) may

[ 0086 ]  A processor unit or device as discussed herein may  be stored on any type of suitable computer readable media ,
be a single processor , a plurality  of processors , or combi  SH such as optical storage ( e . g . , a compact disc , digital versatile
nations thereof  . Processor devices may have one or more  disc , Blu - ray disc , etc . ) or magnetic tape storage ( e . g . , a hard
processor “ cores . ”  The terms “ computer program medium , ”  disk drive ) . The data may be configured in any type of

" non - transitory computer readable medium , ” and “ computer  suitable database configuration , such as a relational data
usable medium ”  as discussed herein are used to  generally  base , a structured query language ( SQL ) database , a distrib
refer to tangible media such as a removable storage unit 818 ,  uted database , an object database ,  etc . Suitable configura

a removable storage unit 822 , and a hard disk installed in  tions and storage types will be apparent to persons having
hard disk drive 812 .  skill in the relevant art .

[ 0087 ]  Various embodiments of the present disclosure are  [ 0092 ]  The computer system 800 may also  include  a
described in  terms of this  example computer system  800 .  communications interface 824 .  The communications inter
After reading this description , it will become apparent to  a  face 824 may be configured to allow  software and data to be
person skilled in  the relevant  art how to  implement  the  transferred between the computer system 800 and external
present disclosure using other computer systems and / or devices . Exemplary communications interfaces 824 may
computer architectures .  Although  operations may be  include a modem , a  network  interface ( e . g . , an  Ethernet
described as a  sequential process , some of the operations  card ) , a communications port , a PCMCIA slot and card , etc . may in  fact be performed in parallel , concurrently , and  / or in  Software and data transferred via the communications inter

a  distributed environment , and with program  code stored  face 824 may be in  the  form  of signals ,  which may be
locally or remotely for access by single or multi - processor  electronic , electromagnetic , optical , or other signals as will
machines . In  addition , in  some embodiments the order of  be apparent to persons having skill in  the relevant art . The
operations may be rearranged without departing from  the  signals may travel via  a communications path 826 , which
spirit of the disclosed subject matter .  may be configured to carry the signals and may be imple

[ 0088 ]  Processor device 804 may be a special purpose or  mented using wire ,  cable ,  fiber  optics ,  a  phone  line ,  a

a general purpose processor device specifically configured to  cellular phone link , a radio  frequency link , etc .
perform  the  functions discussed herein .  The processor  [ 0093 ]  The computer system  800 may further include a
device 804 may be connected to  a  communications infra  display interface 802 .  The display interface 802 may be
structure 806 , such  as a bus , message queue , network ,  configured to  allow  data  to  be transferred  between the
multi - core message - passing scheme , etc . The network may computer system  800 and external display 830 . Exemplary
be any network suitable for performing the functions as  display interfaces 802 may include high - definition multime
disclosed herein  and may include  a  local area network  dia interface ( HDMI  ) , digital visual interface ( DVI  ) , video

( LAN ) , a wide area network ( WAN ) , a wireless network graphics array ( VGA  ) , etc .  The display 830 may be any

( e . g . , WiFi  ) , a mobile communication network , a  satellite  suitable type of display for displaying data transmitted via
network , the Internet , fiber optic , coaxial cable ,  infrared ,  the display interface 802 of the  computer  system 800 ,
radio  frequency  ( RF  ) , or any combination thereof  . Other  including a cathode ray tube ( CRT  ) display , liquid crystal
suitable network types and configurations will be apparent to  display ( LCD ) , light - emitting diode ( LED ) display  , capaci
persons having skill in the relevant art . The computer system  tive touch display , thin - film  transistor ( TFT  ) display , etc .
800 may also  include a main memory  808 ( e . g . , random  [ 0094 )  Computer program medium and computer usable
access memory  , read - only memory  ,  etc . ) , and may also medium may refer to memories , such as the main memory
include a  secondary memory 810 .  The secondary memory  808 and secondary memory 810 , which may be memory
810 may include the hard disk drive 812 and a removable  semiconductors ( e . g . , DRAMs  , etc . ) . These computer pro
storage drive 814 , such as a floppy disk  drive , a magnetic  gram  products may be means for providing software to the
tape drive , an optical disk drive , a flash memory , etc .  computer system 800 . Computer programs ( e . g . ,  computer
10089 ]  The removable storage drive 814 may read from  control logic ) may be stored in the main memory 808 and / or
and  / or write to  the removable storage unit 818  in  a  well  the secondary memory 810 . Computer programs may also


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019

be received via  the communications interface 824 . Such  puting system , wherein the payment request includes at
computer programs , when executed , may enable computer  least  a  reference  value associated with  a  payment
system  800 to  implement the present methods as discussed  transaction ;
herein .  In  particular  ,  the  computer  programs  ,  when  receiving , by the receiving device of the processing
executed , may enable processor device 804 to implement the  server , an acceptance request from the computing sys
methods illustrated by FIGS  . 3 , 4A  , 4B , and 5 - 7 , as dis  tem , wherein the acceptance request includes at least
cussed herein . Accordingly , such computer programs may  the reference value , an acceptance address , one or more
represent controllers of the computer system  800 . Where the  fee values  , and a  first digital signature generated by a
present disclosure is implemented using software , the soft  third party ;
ware may be stored in  a  computer  program product and  generating , by a  signing module of the processing server  ,
loaded into the computer system 800 using the removable  a second digital signature using at least the acceptance
storage drive 814 , interface 820 , and hard disk drive 812 , or  address ; and
communications interface 824 .  electronically transmitting , by the transmitting device of

[ 0095 ]  The processor device 804 may comprise one or  the processing server  , at least the second digital signa
more modules or engines configured to perform the func  ture to  the computing system .
tions of the computer system  800 . Each of the modules or  2 . The method of claim  1 , further comprising :
engines may be implemented using hardware and , in  some  receiving , by the  receiving  device  of the processing

instances , may also utilize software , such as corresponding  server , a transaction message associated with  the pay

to program code and / or programs stored in  the main memory  ment transaction , wherein the transaction message is
808 or secondary memory 810 . In  such  instances , program  formatted based on one or more standards and includes
code may be compiled by the processor device 804 ( e . g . , by  at least a plurality of data elements including at least a

a  compiling module or engine ) prior to  execution by the  first  data  element configured  to  store the primary
hardware of the computer system  800 . For example , the  account number ; and
program code may be source code written in  a  programming  generating , by a hashing module of the processing server ,
language that is translated into a lower level language , such  the reference value based on application of one or more
as assembly language or machine code  , for execution by the  hashing algorithms to the received transaction message .
processor device 804 and / or any additional hardware com  3 . The method of claim  1 , further comprising :
ponents of the computer system  800 . The process of com  receiving , by the receiving  device of the  processing
piling may include the use of lexical analysis , preprocessing ,  server  , blockchain data from  a  node associated with a
parsing , semantic analysis , syntax - directed translation , code  blockchain network ,  wherein  the  blockchain  data
generation , code optimization , and any other techniques that  includes one or more blocks comprising a blockchain ,
may be suitable for translation of program code into a lower  each block being comprised of at least a block header
level language suitable for controlling the computer system  and one or more transaction  values , wherein each
800 to  perform  the functions disclosed herein .  It will be  transaction value includes at least a transaction address ,
apparent to persons having skill in  the relevant art that such  a transaction reference , and a transaction signature ;
processes result in  the  computer  system 800 being a  spe  executing , by a  querying module of the processing server  ,
cially  configured  computer system 800  uniquely pro  a  query on the received blockchain data to identify a
grammed to perform  the functions discussed above .  specific transaction value where the included transac
10096 )  Techniques consistent with the present disclosure  tion address corresponds to the acceptance address ; and
provide , among other features  ,  systems and methods for  verifying , by a  verification module of the processing
processing cryptographically auditable transactions . While  server , the specific transaction value based on at least a
various exemplary embodiments of the disclosed system  and  correspondence between the included transaction ref
method have been described above it should be understood  erence and the reference value and a  correspondence
that they have been presented for purposes of example only ,  between the included transaction signature and the
not limitations . It is not exhaustive and does not limit the  second digital signature .
disclosure to the precise form  disclosed  . Modifications and  4 . A method for processing of a cryptographically audit
variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may  able transaction , comprising :
be acquired from  practicing  of the disclosure ,  without  receiving , by a receiving device of a processing server , a
departing from  the breadth or scope .  payment request from  a  first  computing  system ,
What is  claimed is :  wherein the payment request includes at least a  refer

1 . A method for processing of a cryptographically audit  ence value associated with a payment transaction ;

able transaction , comprising :  generating , by a signing module of the processing server ,

a  first digital  signature using at least the received receiving , by an  input device of a processing  server ,  payment request  ; payment data , wherein the payment data  includes at  electronically transmitting , by a transmitting device of the
least a primary account number ;  processing server , at least the first digital signature and
electronically transmitting , by a transmitting device of the  the payment request to a  second computing system ;
processing server , the primary account number to  a  receiving , by the receiving device  of the processing computing system ;  server , a confirmation message from  the second com
receiving , by a receiving device of the processing server ,  puting  system ,  wherein  the  confirmation message
a  confirmation associated with  the primary account  includes at least one or more fee  values , a  second
number from  the computing  system ;  digital signature , and an acceptance address ;
electronically transmitting , by the transmitting device of  electronically transmitting , by the transmitting device of
the processing server , a payment request to the com  the processing server , an acceptance request to the first


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019
14

computing system , wherein the  acceptance request  electronically transmitting , by a transmitting device of the
includes at least the reference value , the one or more  processing server , at least the one or more fee values ,
fee values , the second digital signature , and the accep  the acceptance address , and the second digital signature
tance address ;  to the computing system ;
receiving , by the receiving device  of the processing  receiving , by the receiving  device  of the processing
server , an acceptance message from  the first computing  server , blockchain data from  a node associated with the
system , wherein the acceptance message includes at  blockchain network ,  wherein the  blockchain  data

least a third digital signature ; and  includes one or more blocks comprising a blockchain ,

electronically transmitting , by the transmitting device of  each block being comprised of at least a block header

the processing server , a  transaction value to  a  node  and one or more transaction values , wherein each

associated with  a  blockchain  network , wherein the  transaction value includes at least a transaction address ,

transaction value includes at least the reference value ,  a transaction reference , and a transaction signature ;
the acceptance address , and the third digital signature .  executing , by the  querying module of the processing

5 . The method of claim  4 , comprising :  server , a  query  on the received  blockchain data  to
identify a  specific transaction value where the included receiving , by the receiving device of the processing  transaction address corresponds to  the acceptance server , blockchain data from a node associated with the  address ; and blockchain network ,  wherein  the  blockchain  data  verifying , by a  verification  module of the processing
includes one or more blocks comprising a blockchain ,  server , the specific transaction value based on at least a
each block being comprised of at least a block header  correspondence between the included transaction ref and one or more transaction  values , wherein each  erence and the reference value . transaction value includes at least a transaction address ,  8 . The method of claim  7 , further comprising :
a transaction reference , and a transaction signature ;  generating , by a  generation module of the processing
executing , by a querying module of the processing server ,  server , an  acceptance entry , wherein the acceptance

a  query on the received blockchain data to  identify  a  entry  includes at least the acceptance  address  ,  the
specific transaction value where the included transac  reference value  , and the second digital signature ; and
tion address corresponds to the acceptance address ; and  electronically transmitting , by the transmitting device of
verifying , by a  verification module of the processing  the processing server  , the generated acceptance entry to
server , the specific transaction value based on at least a  a node associated with the blockchain network .
correspondence between the included transaction ref  9 . A system  for processing of a cryptographically audit
erence and the reference value and a correspondence  able transaction , comprising :
between the included transaction signature and the third  a signing module of a processing server ;
digital signature .  an input device of the processing server  configured to

6 . The method of claim  4 , further comprising :  receive payment data ,  wherein the  payment data
storing , in an account database of the processing server , a  includes at least a  primary account number ;
plurality of account profiles , wherein each  account  a transmitting device of the processing server configured
profile includes a  structured data set related to a trans  to  electronically transmit the primary account number
action  account including at least a  primary account  to  a computing system ; and
number  ;  a receiving device of the processing server configured to
receiving , by the  receiving  device of the processing  receive a  confirmation  associated with  the primary
server , a verification request from  the first computing  account number from  the computing system , wherein
system , wherein the verification request includes at  the transmitting device of the processing server is further

least a specific account number  ;  configured to electronically transmit a payment request

verifying , by a verification module of the processing  to the computing system , wherein the payment request

server  ,  an  account profile of the plurality of account  includes at least a  reference value associated with a

profiles where the included primary account number  payment transaction ;
corresponds to  the specific account number ; and  the receiving device of the processing server is  further

electronically transmitting , by the transmitting device of  configured to  receive an acceptance request from  the
computing system ,  wherein the acceptance request
the processing server , an indication of successful veri
fication to  the first computing  system .  includes at least the reference  value , an acceptance
address , one or more fee values , and a first digital
7 . A method for processing of a cryptographically audit  signature generated by a third party ;
able transaction , comprising :  the signing module of the processing server is configured
receiving , by a receiving device of a processing server  , a  to generate a second digital signature using at least the payment request from  a computing system , wherein the  acceptance address , and
payment request includes at least a  reference  value  the transmitting device of the processing server is con
associated with a payment transaction and a first digital  figured to  electronically  transmit at least the second
signature ;  digital signature to the computing system .
executing , by a querying module of the processing server ,  10 . The system  of claim  9 , further comprising :

a  first query to identify one or more fee values for the  a hashing module of the processing server , wherein
payment transaction and a second query to identify an  the receiving device of the processing server is further
acceptance address ;  configured to  receive a  transaction message associated
generating , by a signing module of the processing server ,  with the payment transaction , wherein the transaction

a second digital signature ;  message is formatted based on one or more standards


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019
15

and includes at least a  plurality  of data  elements  wherein the transaction value includes at least the
including at least a first data element configured to store  reference value , the acceptance address , and the third
the primary account number  , and  digital signature .

the hashing module of the processing server is configured  13 . The system  of claim  12 , comprising :

to  generate the reference value based on application of  a  querying module of the processing server , and
one or more hashing algorithms to the received trans  a  verification module of the processing server , wherein
action message .  the receiving device of the processing server is further
11 . The system  of claim  9 , further comprising :  configured to  receive blockchain data  from  a  node

a querying module of the processing server , and  associated with the blockchain network , wherein the

a verification module of the processing server , wherein  blockchain data includes one or more blocks compris
ing a blockchain , each block being comprised of at least the receiving device of the processing server is further
configured to  receive blockchain  data from  a  node
a  block  header and one or more transaction values ,

associated with  a  blockchain  network , wherein  the  wherein each  transaction value includes at least  a
transaction address , a transaction reference , and a trans blockchain data includes one or more blocks compris  action signature , ing a blockchain , each block being comprised of at least

a  block header and  one or more transaction values ,  the querying module of the processing server is config

wherein each  transaction value includes at least a  ured to execute a query on the received blockchain data

transaction address , a transaction reference , and a trans
to  identify  a  specific  transaction value  where  the

action signature ,  included transaction address corresponds to the accep
tance address , and the querying module of the processing server is config  the verification module of the processing server is con ured to execute a query on the received blockchain data  figured to verify the specific transaction value based on
to  identify  a  specific  transaction  value where the
included transaction address corresponds to the accep  at least a  correspondence between the included trans
action reference and the reference value and a  corre
tance address , and  spondence between the included transaction signature
the verification module of the processing server is con  and the third digital signature .
figured to verify the specific transaction value based on  14 . The system  of claim  12 , further comprising : at least a correspondence between the included trans
action reference and the reference value and a  corre  a verification module of the processing server ; and
spondence between the included transaction signature  an account database of the processing server configured to
and the second digital signature .  store  a  plurality  of account profiles ,  wherein each

12 . A  system  for processing of a cryptographically audit  account profile includes a structured data set related to

a  transaction  account including at least a  primary able transaction , comprising :  account number  , wherein
a receiving device of a processing server configured to  the receiving device of the processing server is  further receive a  payment request from  a  first  computing  configured to receive a  verification  request from  the
system , wherein the payment request includes at least  first computing system , wherein the verification request
a reference value associated with a payment transac
tion ;  includes at least a specific account number  ,
the verification module of the processing server is con
a signing module of the processing server configured to  figured to verify an account profile of the plurality of
generate a  first digital signature  using  at  least the  account profiles where the included primary account
received payment request ; and  number corresponds to the specific account number  ,
a transmitting device of the processing server configured  and
to  electronically transmit at least the first digital sig  the transmitting device of the processing server is further
nature and the payment request to a second computing  configured to  electronically transmit an indication of
system , wherein  successful verification to the first computing system .
the receiving device of the processing server is  further  15 . A system  for processing of a cryptographically audit
configured to receive a confirmation message from  the  able transaction , comprising :
second computing system , wherein the confirmation  a  verification module of a processing server ;
message includes at least one or more fee  values ,  a  a receiving device of the processing server configured to
second digital signature , and an acceptance address ;  receive a payment request from  a computing  system ,
the transmitting device of the processing server is further  wherein the payment request includes at least a refer
configured to  electronically  transmit an  acceptance  ence value associated with a payment transaction and a
request to the  first  computing  system , wherein the  first digital signature ;
acceptance request includes at least the reference value ,  a querying module of the processing server configured to
the one or more fee values , the second digital signature ,  execute a first query to identify one or more fee values
and the acceptance address ;  for the payment transaction and a  second query  to
the receiving device of the processing server is further  identify an acceptance address ;
configured to receive an acceptance message from  the  a signing module of the processing server configured to
first computing system , wherein the acceptance mes  generate a second digital signature ; and
sage includes at least a third digital signature ; and  a transmitting device of the processing server configured
the transmitting device of the processing server is further  to electronically transmit at least the one or more fee
configured to electronically transmit a transaction value  values  , the acceptance address , and the second digital
to  a  node associated  with  a  blockchain  network ,  signature to the computing system , wherein


US 2019 / 0034926 A1  Jan . 31  , 2019

the receiving device of the processing server is  further
configured to  receive blockchain  data from  a  node
associated with  the blockchain network , wherein the
blockchain data includes one or more blocks compris
ing a blockchain , each block being comprised of at least

a  block header and one or more transaction  values ,
wherein each  transaction  value  includes  at  least a
transaction address , a transaction reference , and a trans
action signature ;
the querying module of the processing server is  further
configured to  execute a  query on the received block
chain data to identify a specific transaction value where
the included transaction address corresponds to  the
acceptance address , and
the verification module of the processing server is  con
figured to verify the specific transaction value based on
at least a correspondence between the included trans
action reference and the reference value .
16 . The system  of claim  15 , further comprising  :

a generation module of the processing server configured

to generate an acceptance entry , wherein the acceptance
entry  includes  at  least the acceptance  address ,  the
reference value ,  and  the  second  digital signature  ,
wherein
the transmitting device of the processing server is further
configured to  electronically  transmit the  generated
acceptance entry to  a node associated with the block
chain network .
